-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 CJzhM17Ggtbk1TjrfkvAitfFI2k71UFKX1dBL2KCrHOR1RSrv+r8mHu3dNnruXXL
 SSIGMOEL8cWBlm4pzdFJrA==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000320193-96-000023.txt : 19961220
<SEC-HEADER>0000320193-96-000023.hdr.sgml : 19961220
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000320193-96-000023
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		7
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19960927
FILED AS OF DATE:		19961219
SROS:			NASD

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			APPLE COMPUTER INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000320193
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS [3571]
		IRS NUMBER:				942404110
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			CA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-10030
		FILM NUMBER:		96683426

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1 INFINITE LOOP
		CITY:			CUPERTINO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95014
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4089961010
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<TEXT>


______________________________________________________________________________

				UNITED STATES
			SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
			   Washington, D. C. 20549
				Form 10-K
	(Mark One)
	[X]	ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO 
	SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES 
	EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
	For the fiscal year ended September 27, 1996  OR
	[   ]	TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO 
	SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES 
	EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
	For the transition period from __________ to __________

			Commission file number 0-10030

			    APPLE COMPUTER, INC.
	   (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

      CALIFORNIA[State or other jurisdiction	94-2404110
       of incorporation or organization]	[I.R.S. Employer
						Identification No.]

1 Infinite Loop					
Cupertino  California,					95014
[Address of principal executive offices]		[Zip Code]

	Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (408) 996-1010

	Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None

	Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
			 Common Stock, no par value
			Common Share Purchase Rights
			   (Titles of classes)

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports 
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the 
Registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to 
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

			Yes	[X]	No	[   ]


Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to 
the best of the Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information  
statements incorporated by reference to Part III of this Form 10-K or any 
amendment to this Form 10-K.  [   ]

The aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the 
Registrant was approximately $2,941,155,709 as of November 29, 1996, 
based upon the closing price on the Nasdaq National Market reported for 
such date.  Shares of Common Stock held by each executive officer and 
director and by each person who beneficially owns more than 5% of the 
outstanding Common Stock have been excluded in that such persons may 
under certain circumstances be deemed to be affiliates.  This determination 
of executive officer or affiliate status is not necessarily a conclusive 
determination for other purposes.
	
 	124,552,511 shares of Common Stock Issued and Outstanding as of 
	November 29, 1996

		DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE, 
Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement dated December 1996 (the 
"Proxy Statement"), to be delivered to shareholders in connection with the 
Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held February 5, 1997, are 
incorporated by reference into Parts I and III.
 <PAGE>

PART I

Item 1. Business

General

Apple Computer, Inc. ("Apple" or the "Company") was incorporated under 
the laws of the State of California on January 3, 1977.  The Company's 
principal executive offices are located at 1 Infinite Loop, Cupertino, 
California, 95014 and its telephone number is (408) 996-1010.

The Company designs, manufactures and markets microprocessor-based 
personal computers and related personal computing and communicating 
solutions for sale primarily to education, home, business and government 
customers.  Substantially all of the Company's net sales to date have been 
derived from the sale of personal computers from its Apple Macintosh(registered
trademark) line of computers and related software and peripherals.  The Company
operates in one principal industry segment across geographically diverse 
marketplaces.

During 1996, the Company began to implement certain restructuring 
actions aimed at reducing its cost structure, improving its competitiveness,
and restoring sustained profitibility.  The Company's restructuring actions 
have included the termination of employees, as well as the sale of the 
Company's Fountain, Colorado, manufacturing facility to SCI Systems, 
Inc. ("SCI").  As part of the terms of this sale, the Company is committed
to purchase product manufactured by SCI in the future.  Further 
information regarding the above may be found in Part II, Item 7 of this 
Annual Report on Form 10-K (the "Form 10-K") under the subheadings 
"Restructuring of Operations" and "Inventory and Supply" included under 
the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial 
Condition," and in Part II, Item 8 on this Form 10-K in the Notes to 
Consolidated Financial Statements under the heading  "Restructuring of 
Operations," under the subheading "Concentrations in the Available 
Sources of Supply of Materials and Product" included under the heading 
"Concentrations of Risk," and under the subheading "Purchase 
Commitment" included under the heading "Commitments and 
Contingencies," which information is hereby incorporated by reference.

Principal products

Apple Macintosh personal computers were first introduced in 1984, and 
are characterized by their intuitive ease of use, innovative applications 
base, and built-in networking, graphics and multimedia capabilities.

The Company offers a wide range of personal computing products, 
including personal computers, related peripherals, software, and 
networking and connectivity products.

All of the Company's Macintosh products include the PowerPC(trademark)
RISC-based microprocessor.  The Company also offers computer products
capable of running application software designed for the MS-DOS or
Windows operating systems ("Cross Platform Products").  These products
include the RISC-based PowerPC microprocessor and either include the 
Pentium or 586-class microprocessor or can accommodate an add-on card 
containing a Pentium or 586-class microprocessor.  These products enable 
users to run concurrently applications that require the Mac OS, MS-DOS, 
Windows 3.1, or Windows 95 operating systems.

Power Macintosh

The Power Macintosh high-performance family of personal computers is 
targeted at business, academic and professional users and is designed to 
meet the speed, expansion and networking needs of the most demanding 
Macintosh user.  These Power Macintosh products not only support 
virtually all existing Macintosh applications, but can also run MS-DOS 
and Windows applications when using SoftWindows(trademark) software from 
Insignia Solutions.




				2
<PAGE>


Macintosh Performa

The Performa family of personal computers is designed to appeal primarily 
to first-time personal computer users.  These products feature all-in-one
box computing solutions, including software and hardware chosen 
specifically with home users in mind. 

Macintosh PowerBook

The PowerBook family of portable computer products is specifically 
designed for mobile computing needs.  All PowerBook personal computers 
include software designed to enhance mobile computing.

Peripheral Products

The Company sells associated computer peripherals, including the 
ImageWriter(registered trademark), StyleWriter(registered trademark),
Color StyleWriter and LaserWriter(registered trademark) printer 
families, CD-ROM and magnetic disk drives, scanners, a range of color 
monitors, and the QuickTake(registered trademark) 150 digital camera.

MessagePad and Related Products

The Apple MessagePad(registered trademark) 130 communications assistant
integrates Newton(registered trademark) technology in a hand-held mobile
computer that intelligently assists the user in capturing, organizing and
communicating information. The Apple MessagePad 2000 includes additional
built-in applications and a faster processor as compared to the Apple
MessagePad 130.  The Apple eMate 300 integrates Newton technology in a mobile
computer and includes built-in applications.  The product allows students to
perform preliminary work on the eMate 300 and enhance it on either an existing
Mac OS or Windows software-based desktop computer.  The eMate 300 
allows students to enter data by keyboard or stylus and also share data and 
files with each other, send and receive e-mail, and access the Internet.  The
Company plans to begin selling the Apple MessagePad 2000 and the 
Apple eMate 300 in early calendar 1997. 

Operating System Software and Application Software 

The Company's operating system software, its proprietary Macintosh 
system software called Mac OS, provides Apple computers with an easy, 
consistent user interface and built-in networking capability based on its 
AppleTalk networking standard, as well as other industry networking 
standards, and ensures integration of hardware and software.  The 
Company also develops and distributes extensions to the Macintosh system 
software, such as utilities, languages, developer tools, and educational 
software.  Claris Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, 
develops, publishes, and distributes application software in a variety of 
established personal productivity categories, such as database management 
and graphics, for Macintosh and Windows-based systems. Claris(registered
trademark) products are distributed primarily through independent software
resellers.

Servers 

The Workgroup and Network Server families of products provide file, 
print, Internet, and application services, to varying size workgroups.  
These products also provide Apple system connectivity to local area 
networks, and interoperability with other computers and computing 
environments.  

Internet Products

Apple's Internet strategy is focused on delivering seamless integration with 
and access to the Internet throughout the Company's product line and 
developing and supporting "open" standards for the Internet.  The 
Company has a number of Internet products currently available.  The 
Apple Internet Connection Kit is a collection of Apple and third-party 
software which enables the user to connect directly to the Internet.  The 
Company has recently introduced Cyberdog(registered trademark), a set of tools
which enables the user to customize the way they access and view Internet
content.  The Apple Internet Server Solution consists of a workgroup server
and both Apple and third-party software which enable the users to establish a
presence on the World Wide Web.

Further information regarding the Company's products may be found in 
Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K under the subheading "Competition" 
included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and 
Financial Condition," which information is hereby incorporated by 
reference.  
				3
<PAGE>

Markets and Distribution
 
The Company's customers are primarily in the education, home, business 
and government markets.  Certain customers are attracted to the Macintosh 
for a variety of reasons, including the availability of a wide variety of 
certain application software, the reduced amount of training resulting from 
the Macintosh's intuitive ease of use, and the ability of the Macintosh to 
network and communicate with other computer systems and environments.
 
Apple personal computers were first introduced to education customers in 
the late 1970s.  In the United States, the Company is one of the major 
suppliers of personal computers for both elementary and secondary school 
customers, as well as for college and university customers.  The Company 
is also a substantial supplier to institutions of higher education outside of
the United States.
  
Presently, the Americas represent the Company's largest geographic 
marketplace.  The Apple Americas organization focuses on the Company's 
sales, marketing, and support efforts in North and South America.  
Products sold in these regions are primarily manufactured in the 
Company's facilities in California and Singapore, and in the SCI facility in 
Colorado, and are distributed from the Company's facility in California and 
from a third-party facility in Illinois.
 
Approximately 46% to 52% of the Company's revenues in recent years has 
come from its international operations.  The Company's international sales 
and marketing divisions consist of: Apple Americas; Apple Europe, 
Middle East and Africa ("Apple EMEA"); Apple Japan; and Apple Asia 
Pacific (which does not include Japan).  The marketing divisions focus on 
opportunities in their regions.  Products sold by Apple EMEA are 
manufactured primarily in the Company's facility in Cork, Ireland.  
Products sold by Apple Americas, Apple Japan, and Apple Asia Pacific are 
manufactured primarily in the Company's facilities in California and 
Singapore, and in the SCI facility in Colorado.
 
The Company distributes its products through third-party computer 
resellers, and is also continuing its expansion into various consumer 
channels, such as mass merchandise stores, consumer electronics outlets 
and computer superstores, in response to changing industry practices and 
customer preferences.  The Company's products are sold primarily to 
business and government customers through independent resellers, value-
added resellers and systems integrators; to home customers through 
independent resellers and consumer channels; and to education customers 
through direct sales and independent resellers.  In order to provide 
products and service to its independent resellers on a timely basis, the 
Company distributes its products through a number of Apple and third-
party distribution and support centers.

A summary of the Company's Industry Segment and Geographic 
Information may be found in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K under Notes 
to Consolidated Financial Statements under the heading "Industry Segment 
and Geographic Information," which information is hereby incorporated by 
reference.

Raw materials  

Although certain components essential to the Company's business are 
generally available from multiple sources, key components and processes 
currently obtained from single sources include certain of the Company's 
displays, microprocessors, mouse devices, keyboards, disk drives, printers 
and printer components, application-specific integrated circuits ("ASICs") 
and other custom chips, and certain processes relating to construction of 
the plastic housing for the Company's computers.  Any availability 
limitations, interruption in supplies, or price increases relative to these and
other components could adversely affect the Company's business and 
financial results.  In addition, new products introduced by the Company 
often initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source, 
until the Company has evaluated whether there is a need for an additional 
supplier.  In situations where a component or product utilizes new 
technologies, there may be initial capacity constraints until such time as 
the suppliers' yields have matured.  Components are normally acquired 
through purchase orders, as is common in the industry, typically covering 
the Company's requirements for periods from 90 to 180 days. However, 
the Company continues to evaluate the need for a supply contract in each 
situation.

If the supply of a key single-sourced component to the Company were to 
be delayed or curtailed, the Company's ability to ship the related product 
utilizing that component in desired quantities and in a timely manner could 
be adversely affected.  The Company's business and financial performance 
could also be adversely affected, depending on the time required to obtain 
sufficient quantities from the original source, or to identify and obtain 
sufficient quantities from an alternate source.  The Company believes that 
the suppliers whose loss to the Company could have a material adverse 
effect upon the Company's business and financial position include, at this

				4
<PAGE>

 
time: Canon, Inc., General Electric Co., IBM, Motorola, Inc., Sharp
Corporation, Sony Corporation, Texas Instruments, Inc., and/or their United
States affiliates VLSI Technology, Inc., Quanta Computer, Inc., Quantum
Corporation, and SCI. However, the Company helps mitigate these potential risks
by working closely with these and other key suppliers on product introduction
plans, strategic inventories, coordinated product introductions, and 
manufacturing schedules and levels.  The Company believes that most of 
its single-source suppliers, including most of the foregoing companies, are 
reliable multinational corporations.  Most of these suppliers manufacture 
the relevant components in multiple plants.  The Company further believes 
that its long-standing business relationships with these and other key 
suppliers are strong and mutually beneficial in nature.  

The Company has also from time to time experienced significant price 
increases and limited availability of certain components that are available 
from multiple sources.  Any similar occurrences in the future could have 
an adverse affect on the Company's operating results.
 
The Company is obligated to purchase certain percentages of its total 
annual volumes of CPUs and logic boards from SCI over each of the next 
three years (see Exhibit 10.B.14 hereto).  In addition, the Company has a 
supply agreement with Motorola, Inc. (see Exhibit 10.B.12 hereto).  The 
agreement with Motorola continues for five years from January 31, 1992 
unless otherwise mutually agreed in writing by the parties.  The Company 
single-sources certain microprocessors from Motorola. The supply 
agreement does not obligate the Company to make minimum purchase 
commitments; however, the agreement does commit the vendor to supply 
the Company's requirements of the particular items for the duration of the 
agreement. 

Further discussion relating to availability and supply of components and 
product may be found under Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K under the 
subheading "Inventory and Supply" included under the heading "Factors 
That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," and in Part II, 
Item 8 on this Form 10-K in the Notes to Consolidated Financial 
Statements under the subheading "Concentrations in the Available Sources 
of Supply of Materials and Product" included under the heading 
"Concentrations of Risk," and under the subheading "Purchase 
Commitment" included under the heading "Commitments and 
Contingencies," which information is hereby incorporated by reference.

Patents, trademarks, copyrights and licenses

The Company currently holds rights to patents and copyrights relating to 
certain aspects of its computer and peripheral systems.  In addition, the 
Company has registered, and/or has applied to register, trademarks in the 
United States and a number of foreign countries for "Apple", the Apple 
silhouette logo, the Apple color logo, "Macintosh", Newton, the Newton 
Lightbulb logo, Claris and numerous other product trademarks. In 1986, the 
Company acquired ownership of the trademark "Macintosh" for use in 
connection with computer products.  Although the Company believes that 
the ownership of such patents, copyrights, and trademarks is an important 
factor in its business and that its success does depend in part on the 
ownership thereof, the Company relies primarily on the innovative skills, 
technical competence, and marketing abilities of its personnel.

Because of technological changes in the computer industry, current 
extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it
is possible that certain components of the Company's products may 
unknowingly infringe existing patents of others. The Company believes 
the resolution of any claim of infringements would not have a material 
adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations as 
reported in the accompanying financial statements.  However, depending 
on the amount and timing of an unfavorable resolution of any such claims 
of infringement, it is possible that the Company's future results of 
operations or cash flow could be materially affected in a particular period.  
The Company has from time to time entered into cross-licensing 
agreements with other companies.

Seasonal business

Although the Company does not consider its business to be highly 
seasonal, it has historically experienced increased sales in its first and 
fourth fiscal quarters, compared to other quarters in its fiscal year, due to 
holiday demand for and calendar year-end buying of some of its products.  
However, past performance should not be considered a reliable indicator of 
the Company's future revenue or financial performance. 

				5
<PAGE>


Warranty

The Company offers a parts and labor limited warranty on its products.  
The warranty period is one year from the date of purchase by the end user.  
The Company also offers a 90-day warranty for Apple service parts used 
to repair Apple hardware products.  In addition, consumers may purchase 
extended service coverage on all Apple hardware products.

Significant Customers

No customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company's net sales in 
1996, 1995, and 1994.

Backlog

In general, the Company's resellers purchase products on an as-needed 
basis.  Resellers frequently change delivery schedules and order rates 
depending on changing market conditions.  Unfilled orders (backlog) can 
be, and often are, canceled at will.  The Company attempts to fill orders on 
the requested delivery schedules.  However, products may be in relatively 
short supply from time to time until production volumes have reached a 
level sufficient to meet demand or if other production or fulfillment  
constraints exist.  The Company's backlog of unfilled orders decreased to 
approximately $563 million at November 29, 1996 from $618 million at 
December 1, 1995.  The Company's backlog at November 29, 1996 
consisted primarily of the Company's PowerBook products, as well as 
higher-end Power Macintosh products.  The Company expects that 
substantially all of its orders in backlog at November 29, 1996 will be 
either shipped or canceled during fiscal 1997. 

In the Company's experience, the actual amount of product backlog at any 
particular time is not a meaningful indication of its future business 
prospects.  In particular, backlog often increases in anticipation of or 
immediately following introduction of new products because of 
overordering by dealers anticipating shortages.  Backlog often is reduced 
once dealers and customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply.  
Because of the foregoing, as well as other factors affecting the Company's 
backlog, backlog should not be considered a reliable indicator of the 
Company's future revenue or financial performance.  Further information 
regarding the Company's backlog may be found under Part II, Item 7 of 
this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the subheading "Net Sales" 
included under the heading "Results of Operations," and under the 
subheading "Product Introductions and Transitions" included under the 
heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial 
Condition," which information is hereby incorporated by reference. 

Competition

The market for the design, manufacture and sale of personal computers, 
MessagePad and related products, and related software and peripheral 
products is highly competitive.  It continues to be characterized by rapid 
technological advances in both hardware and software development that 
have substantially increased the capabilities and applications of these 
products, and has resulted in the frequent introduction of new products. 
The principal competitive factors in this market are relative 
price/performance, product quality and reliability, availability of software, 
product features, marketing and distribution capability, service and 
support, availability of hardware peripherals, and corporate reputation. 

Further discussion relating to the competitive conditions of the personal 
computing industry and the Company's competitive position in the market 
place may be found under Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K under the 
subheading "Competition," included under the heading "Factors That May 
Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," and in Part II, Item 8 on 
this Form 10-K in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under 
the subheading "Reserves Against Inventories" under the heading 
"Accounting Estimates," which information is hereby incorporated by 
reference.

				6
<PAGE>

Research and development

Because the personal computer industry is characterized by rapid 
technological advances, the Company's ability to compete successfully is 
heavily dependent upon its ability to ensure a continuing and timely flow 
of competitive products to the marketplace.  The Company continues to 
develop new products and technologies and to enhance existing products 
in the areas of hardware and peripherals, system software, networking and 
communications, and the Internet. The Company's research and 
development expenditures totaled $604 million, $614 million, and $564 
million in fiscal years 1996, 1995, and 1994, respectively.

Further information regarding the Company's R&D expenditures for fiscal 
year 1996 is set forth in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K under the 
heading "Operating Expenses," which information is hereby incorporated 
by reference.

Environmental laws

Compliance with United States federal, state, and local laws enacted for 
the protection of the environment has to date had no material effect upon 
the Company's capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. 
Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects in 
the future based on the nature of its operations and the thrust of such laws,
no assurance can be given that such laws, or any future laws enacted for 
the protection of the environment, will not have a material adverse effect 
on the Company.

Employees

At September 27, 1996, Apple and its subsidiaries worldwide had 10,896 
regular employees, and an additional 2,502 temporary or part-time 
contractors and employees.

Foreign and domestic operations and geographic data

Information regarding financial data by geographic area and the risks 
associated with international operations is set forth under Part II, Item 8 of
this Form 10-K under the heading "Industry Segment and Geographic 
Information," and under Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K under the 
subheading "Global Market Risks," included under the heading "Factors 
That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," which 
information is hereby incorporated by reference. 

Margins on sales of Apple products in foreign countries, and on domestic 
sales of products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, 
can be adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations 
and by international trade regulations, including tariffs and anti-dumping 
penalties.

Item 2. Properties

The Company's headquarters are located in Cupertino, California.  The 
Company has manufacturing facilities in Sacramento, California, Cork, 
Ireland, and Singapore.  As of September 27, 1996, the Company leased 
approximately  4.1 million square feet of space, primarily in the United 
States, and to a lesser extent, in Europe and the Pacific.  Leases are 
generally for terms of five to ten years, and usually provide renewal 
options for terms of up to five additional years.  

The Company owns its manufacturing facilities in  Cork, Ireland, and 
Singapore, which total approximately 781,000 square feet.  The Company 
also owns a 725,000 square-foot facility in Sacramento, California, which 
is used as a manufacturing, service and support center.  In addition, the 
Company owns the research and development facility located in 
Cupertino, California, which approximates 856,000  square feet.  Outside 
the United States, the Company owns a facility in Apeldoorn, Netherlands, 
which is used primarily for distribution, totaling approximately 265,000 
square feet, and certain other international facilities, totaling
approximately 460,000 square feet.   

				7
<PAGE>


Certain  facilities in Sacramento, California; Apeldoorn, Netherlands and 
in the United Kingdom are currently being held for sale as part of the 
Company's restructuring plan, which includes increasing the proportion of 
the Company's products manufactured and distributed under outsourcing 
arrangements.  Further information regarding the Company's restructuring 
plan, may be found in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K under the 
subheadings "Restructuring of Operations" and "Inventory and Supply" 
included under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and 
Financial Condition," and in Part II, Item 8 on this Form 10-K in the Notes 
to Consolidated Financial Statements under the heading "Restructuring of 
Operations," under the subheading "Concentrations in the Available 
Sources of Supply of Materials and Product" included under the heading 
"Concentrations of Risk," and under the subheading "Purchase 
Commitment" included under the heading "Commitments and 
Contingencies," which information is hereby incorporated by reference.  
 
The Company believes that its existing facilities and equipment are well 
maintained and in good operating condition.  The Company has invested in 
additional internal capacity and external partnerships, and therefore 
believes it has adequate manufacturing capacity for the foreseeable future 
even after the sale of the foregoing facilities.  The Company continues to 
make investments in capital equipment as needed to meet anticipated 
demand for its products.
 
Information regarding critical business operations that are located near 
major earthquake faults is set forth in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K 
under the subheading "Other Factors" included under the heading "Factors 
That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition", which 
information is hereby incorporated by reference.  

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

Information regarding legal proceedings is set forth in Part II, Item 8 of 
this Form 10-K under the subheading "Litigation," included under the 
heading "Commitments and Contingencies," which information is hereby 
incorporated by reference.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth 
quarter of the Company's fiscal year ended September 27, 1996.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following sets forth certain information regarding the executive 
officers of the Company as of December 5, 1996:

Gilbert F. Amelio*, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (age 53).  Dr. 
Amelio joined the Company's Board of Directors in November 1994 and 
was elected Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer in 
February 1996.  From 1991 to February 1996, Dr. Amelio was President 
and Chief Executive Officer of National Semicondutor Corporation, a 
manufacturer of semiconductors. Previously, he served as president of 
Rockwell Communications Systems, a subsidiary of Rockwell 
International. He is currently a director of Pacific Telesis Group, a 
communications and information services company.

Fred D. Anderson*, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
(age 52). Mr. Anderson joined the Company in April 1996 as Executive 
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining the Company, 
Mr. Anderson was Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of 
Automatic Data Processing, Inc. ("ADP"), a computing services company, 
from August 1992 to March 1996. Prior to joining ADP, Mr. Anderson 
held several domestic and international executive positions at MAI Basic 
Four, Inc., including President and Chief Operating Officer.

Ellen M. Hancock, Executive Vice President and Chief Technology 
Officer (age 53).  Ms. Hancock joined the Company in July 1996 as 
Executive Vice President, Research and Development and Chief 
Technology Officer.  From September 1995 to May 1996, she was 
Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer of National 
Semiconductor Corporation, a manufacturer of semiconductors. Prior to 
her employment with National Semiconductor, she was Senior Vice 
President and Group Executive of the Networking Hardware, Networking Software,
and Software Solutions divisions at International Business Machines ("IBM")
from 1993-1995.
				8
<PAGE>


Marco Landi*, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer 
(age 53).  Mr. Landi joined the Company in March 1995, as Senior Vice 
President and President of Apple Europe to assume responsibility for all of 
Apple's business operations throughout Europe, Africa and the Middle 
East, and in June 1996 was promoted to Executive Vice President and 
Chief Operating Officer.  Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Landi was 
employed by Texas Instruments ("TI") Europe as President of TI Europe, 
Middle East, and Africa, responsible for all of TI's business operations in 
those regions.  Prior to that assignment, Mr. Landi served for two years as 
President of TI Asia.

George M. Scalise*, Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative 
Officer (age 61). Mr. Scalise joined the Company in March 1996 as 
Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer. Prior to 
joining the Company, Mr. Scalise was Executive Vice President and Chief 
Administrative Officer at National Semiconductor Corporation.

Robert M. Calderoni, Senior Vice President, Finance and Operations 
Controller (age 37). Mr. Calderoni joined the Company in July 1996 in his 
present position. Previously, from February 1995 to July 1996, he was 
Vice President, Finance, for Storage Systems at IBM, and from 1993 to 
February 1995 was a Director of Finance at IBM. Prior to 1993 he held 
various finance positions at IBM.

Satjiv Chahil, Senior Vice President, Worldwide Corporate Marketing 
(age 46). Mr. Chahil joined the Company as Director of Marketing for 
Apple Pacific in 1988. He subsequently served as Vice President , New 
Media and Vice President, Entertainment Industry. In January 1996 Mr. 
Chahil was named Senior Vice President, Corporate Marketing. 

Therese Kreig Crane, Senior Vice President, Strategic Market Segments 
(age 46). Dr. Crane joined the Company in 1985 as a business 
development manager.  She served in a variety of marketing positions until 
1994, when she was named Vice President of K-12 Education Sales for the 
Apple USA division.  In 1995 she was promoted to Senior Vice President, 
Education Market Division for Apple Americas. Dr. Crane was named 
Senior Vice President, Strategic Market Segments in June 1996.

Guerrino De Luca, Senior Vice President, Apple Computer, Inc. and 
President, Claris Corporation (age 44).  Mr. DeLuca, who joined the 
Company in 1989, was promoted to Vice President, Marketing, for Apple 
Europe in 1992.  He served as Vice President and General Manager of the 
Personal Interactive Electronics Group for Apple Europe in 1993, and as 
Vice President of Marketing and Sales for the Company's software 
division in 1994.  In 1995 he was named President of Claris Corporation, a 
subsidiary of the Company that develops, manufactures and markets 
software applications. Mr. De Luca was made a Senior Vice President of 
the Company in 1996.

Michael L. Dionne, Senior Vice President and General Manager, Apple 
Assist (age 47). Mr. Dionne, who joined the Company in 1983, was 
promoted to Senior Vice President of U.S. Sales in July 1990. He was 
named Vice President of Marketing Operations for the Apple USA 
division in May 1993 and in June 1994, he was named Vice President of 
Worldwide Communications and Marketing Services. Mr. Dionne was 
promoted to Senior Vice President, Business Markets Division, Apple 
Americas in January 1996, and was named Senior Vice President and 
General Manager, Apple Assist in July 1996.

John Floisand*, Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales (age 52).  Mr. 
Floisand joined the Company in May 1986, as Director of Sales, Apple 
Computer, Ltd., United Kingdom. In October 1988, Mr. Floisand was 
named Director of Sales Development, Customer Services and Operations, 
Apple Pacific Division, and in February 1992 was promoted to Vice 
President, Sales Development, Customer Services and Operations, Apple 
Pacific Division. Mr. Floisand was named Vice President and President, 
Apple Pacific in August 1992. In October 1994, Mr. Floisand was 
promoted to Senior Vice President and President, Apple Pacific, and in 
June 1996 was named Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales.

G. Frederick Forsyth, Senior Vice President and General Manager, 
Power Macintosh Products Group (age 52).  Mr. Forsyth joined the 
Company in June 1989, as Vice President, Worldwide Manufacturing, 
Apple Products Division. Mr. Forsyth was named Senior Vice President, 
Worldwide Manufacturing in November 1990, and in April 1991 he was 
promoted to Senior Vice President and General Manager, Macintosh 
Systems Division. From June 1993 to June 1996, Mr. Forsyth served as 
Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations. He assumed his present 
position in June 1996.  

				9
<PAGE>

James R. Groff, Senior Vice President and General Manager, Information 
Appliance Products Division (age 44).  Mr. Groff joined the Company in 
1988 when Apple acquired Network Innovations Corporation, a networking software
company he co-founded in 1984. After the acquisition, Mr. Groff remained
President of that company. From 1993 to 1995 he was Vice President and
General Manager of the Apple Business Systems division. In 1995 he was named
Vice President of Worldwide Education for the Worldwide Marketing and 
Customer Solutions division. After leaving the Company for a brief period 
in 1996, he returned in June 1996 as Senior Vice President and General 
Manager, Information Appliance Products Division.

Howard F. Lee, Senior Vice President and General Manager, Servers and 
Alternate Platform Products Division (age 44). Mr. Lee joined the 
Company in September 1994, as Vice President, Macintosh Systems, and 
was named to his present position in June 1996.  From 1991 to 1994, Mr. 
Lee served as Vice President of Engineering, SPARC Technology, at Sun 
Microsystems, Inc., a developer, manufacturer and marketer of computer 
workstations. 

Jane A. Risser, Vice President and Treasurer (age 45). Ms. Risser, who 
joined the Company in 1986, was named to her present position in May 
1996. From 1991 to May 1996, she held the position of Director of 
Corporate Finance. She was previously the Director of Investor Relations.

Douglas S. Solomon, Vice President, Strategic Planning and Vice 
President, Corporate Development (age 46). Dr. Solomon, who joined the 
Company in 1983, was named Director, Corporate Development, in May 
1992. In December 1995, he was promoted to Vice President, Corporate 
Development, and in July 1996 to the additional position of Vice 
President, Strategic Planning.

Patricia Sharp, Senior Vice President, Human Resources (age 52). Ms. 
Sharp was promoted to her present position in December 1996.  From July 
1996 to December 1996, she served as Vice President, Human Resources, 
for the Advanced Technology Group and from April 1995 to July 1996, 
she was Senior Director, Human Resources, research and development. 
Prior to that assignment, she held various managerial positions within the 
Human Resources organization.

*Information regarding employment agreements between certain executive 
officers and the Company is set forth in the section entitled "Information 
About Apple Computer, Inc. - Change in Control Arrangements" and 
"Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Arrangements with Executive 
Officers" of the Company's Proxy Statement, which information is hereby 
incorporated by reference. 

				10
<PAGE>


PART II

Item  5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related 
Stockholder Matters

The Company's common stock is traded on the over-the-counter market 
and is quoted on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol AAPL, on 
the Tokyo Stock Exchange under the symbol APPLE, and on the Frankfurt 
Stock Exchange under the symbol APCD.  Options are traded on the 
Chicago Board Options Exchange and the American Stock Exchange.  
Information regarding the Company's high and low reported closing prices 
for its common stock and the number of shareholders of record is set forth 
in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K under the heading "Selected Quarterly 
Financial Information (Unaudited)", which information is hereby 
incorporated by reference. 

Item 6. Selected Financial Data

The following selected financial information has been derived from the 
audited Consolidated Financial Statements.  The information set forth 
below is not necessarily indicative of results of future operations, and 
should be read in conjunction with "Management's Discussion and 
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and the 
consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included 
elsewhere in this  Form 10-K.

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
ANNUAL
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>					
Five fiscal years
ended September
27, 1996		1996	1995	1994	1993	1992
					
<S>			   <C>	    <C>	    <C>	    <C>	    <C>					
Net sales		$9,833	$11,062	$ 9,189	$ 7,977	$ 7,086
Net income (loss)	$(816)  $   424	$   310	$    87	$   530
Earnings (loss)per
common and common
equivalent share	$(6.59) $  3.45 $  2.61 $  0.73	$  4.33
Cash dividends declared
per common share	$ 0.12   $ 0.48 $  0.48 $  0.48	$  0.48
Common and common
equivalent shares used
in the calculations of
earnings(loss)per share
(in thousands)		123,734	123,047	118,735	119,125	122,490
Cash, cash equivalents,
and short-term
investments		$1,745  $   952 $ 1,258 $   892	$ 1,436
Total assets		$5,364 	$ 6,231	$ 5,303	$ 5,171	$ 4,224
Long-term debt		$  949  $   303	$   305	$     7	$    18
Deferred tax
liabilities		$  354  $   702	$   671 $   630	$   611
</TABLE>
				11
<PAGE>


Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition 
and Results of Operations

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the 
consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.  All information is 
based on the Company's fiscal calendar.

(Tabular information: Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Results of
Operations	1996	Change	1995	Change	1994
<S>		   <C>	  <C>	    <C>	  <C>	   <C>					
Net sales	$9,833  (11%)	$11,062   20%	$9,189     
Gross margin	$  968  (66%)	$ 2,858   22%	$2,343     
 Percentage of
net sales	  9.8%		  25.8%		 25.5%
Research and
development	$  604   (2%)	$   614    9%	$  564    
 Percentage of
net sales	  6.1%		   5.6%		  6.1%
Selling, general and
administrative	$1,568   (1%)	$ 1,583    14%	$1,384   
 Percentage of
net sales	 15.9%		  14.3%		 15.1%
Restructuring
costs	 	$  179    NM	$  (23)     NM	$ (127)        
 Percentage of
net sales	  1.8%		 (0.2%)		 (1.4%)
Interest and other
income(expense),
net		$   88    NM 	$  (10)    55% 	$  (22)    
Net income
(loss)		$ (816)(292%)	$  424     37%	$  310          
Earnings (loss)
per share	$(6.59)(291%)	$ 3.45     32%	$ 2.61       
</TABLE>					
  NM: Not Meaningful					

Overview

During the last nine months of 1996, the Company experienced a 
significant decline in net sales, units shipped, and share of the personal 
computer market.  This decline in demand and the resulting losses, coupled 
with intense price competition throughout the industry, led to the 
Company's decision to implement a new strategic direction intended to 
improve the Company's competitiveness and restore its profitability.  The 
Company has initiated programs to develop and market products and 
services more selectively targeted to education, home, and business 
segments.  In moving in this new strategic direction, the Company expects 
to reduce the number of new product introductions and the number of 
products in certain categories within its current product portfolio.

Net Sales
Net sales trended downward beginning in the second quarter of 1996, 
decreasing $1,229 million, or 11%; $1,545 million, or 19%; and $682 
million, or 23%; during the twelve, nine, and three months ended 
September 27, 1996, respectively, compared with the same periods in 
1995, due to a decrease in net sales of Macintosh(registered trademark)
computers and of peripheral products such as displays and printers.  Total
Macintosh computer unit sales trended downward beginning in the second quarter
of 1996, decreasing 11%, 19%, and 26% during the twelve, nine, and three
months ended September 27, 1996, respectively, compared with the same 
periods in 1995. This decline in unit sales was a result of a decline or lack
of growth in worldwide demand for all product families, which the 
Company believes was due principally to customer concerns regarding the 
Company's strategic direction, financial condition, and future prospects, 
and due to delays in the shipment of certain PowerBook(registered trademark)
products as a result of quality problems.  In addition, unit sales of
peripheral products trended downward beginning in the second quarter of 1996,
decreasing 20%, 24%, and 30% during the twelve, nine and three months ended
September 27, 1996, respectively, compared with the same periods in 
1995, for the reasons noted above.  The average aggregate revenue per 
Macintosh unit increased slightly during the twelve and three months 
ended September 27, 1996, and decreased slightly during the nine months 
ended September 27, 1996, compared with the same periods in 1995, 
primarily due to a continued shift in product mix toward the Company's 
newer products and products with multimedia configurations, offset to 
varying degrees by pricing actions across all product lines in order to 

				12
<PAGE>

stimulate demand.  The average aggregate revenue per peripheral product was
flat during the twelve, nine, and three months ended September 27, 1996
compared with the same periods in 1995.  The average revenue per Macintosh and
per peripheral unit will remain under significant downward pressure due to a
variety of factors, including industrywide pricing pressures and increased
competition. 

International net sales represented 52% of net sales in 1996 compared with 
48% of net sales in 1995.  International net sales trended downward 
beginning in the second quarter of 1996, decreasing 3%, 11% and 13% 
during the twelve, nine, and three months ended September 27, 1996, 
respectively, compared with the same periods in 1995.  Net sales in 
European markets trended downward beginning in the second quarter of 
1996, decreasing during the twelve, nine, and three months ended 
September 27, 1996 compared with the same periods in 1995, as a result of 
a decrease in Macintosh and peripheral unit sales, partially offset by an 
increase in the average aggregate revenue per Macintosh and per 
peripheral unit, primarily during the first part of the year.  Net sales in 
Japan trended downward beginning in the second quarter of 1996, 
decreasing during the twelve, nine, and three months ended September 27, 
1996 compared with the same periods in 1995.  An increase in Macintosh 
unit sales during these periods was more than offset by a decrease in the 
average aggregate revenue per Macintosh and per peripheral unit and a 
decrease in peripheral unit sales.  Domestic net sales trended downward 
beginning in the second quarter of 1996, decreasing by 18%, 26%, and 
30% for the twelve, nine, and three months ended September 27, 1996, 
respectively, compared with the corresponding periods in 1995, resulting 
from a decline or lack of growth in demand for all product families.

According to an industry source, in the fourth quarter of 1996 compared 
with the fourth quarter of 1995, the Company's share of the worldwide and 
U.S. personal computer markets declined to 5.4% from 8.7%, and to 7.3% 
from 13.2%, respectively. 

Net sales increased $1,873 million, or 20%, in 1995 over 1994, primarily 
due to a combination of unit growth, higher average selling prices, and 
changes in currency exchange rates.  Total Macintosh computer unit sales 
increased approximately 15% over the prior year.  This unit sales growth 
resulted principally from strong sales of the Company's Power 
Macintosh(registered trademark) products, which accounted for more than 70%
of total unit shipments during the fourth quarter of 1995, compared with 26%
in the comparable period of 1994, and from sales of newer product offerings 
within the Performa(registered trademark) family of desktop personal computers.
This unit growth was partially offset by declining unit sales of certain of the
Company's older product offerings.  The average aggregate revenue per 
Macintosh unit increased 12% in 1995 compared with 1994, primarily due 
to a shift in product mix toward the Company's newer products and 
products with multimedia configurations.

International net sales represented 48% of net sales in 1995 compared with 
46% of net sales in 1994.  International net sales grew 25% in 1995 from 
1994, primarily reflecting strong net sales growth in the Pacific region, 
particularly Japan.  Domestic net sales increased 16% in 1995 over 1994.

In general, the Company's resellers purchase products on an as-needed 
basis.  Resellers frequently change delivery schedules and order rates 
depending on changing market conditions.  Unfilled orders ('backlog') 
can be, and often are, canceled at will.  The Company attempts to fill 
orders on the requested delivery schedules.  However, products may be in 
relatively short supply from time to time until production volumes have 
reached a level sufficient to meet demand or if other production or 
fulfillment constraints exist.  The Company's backlog was approximately 
$563 million at November 29, 1996, and consisted primarily of the 
Company's PowerBook products, as well as higher-end Power Macintosh 
products.

In the Company's experience, the actual amount of product backlog at any 
particular time is not a meaningful indication of its future business 
prospects.  In particular, backlog often increases in anticipation of or 
immediately following introduction of new products because of 
overordering by dealers anticipating shortages.  Backlog often is reduced 
once dealers and customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply.  
Because of the foregoing, as well as other factors affecting the Company's 
backlog, backlog should not be considered a reliable indicator of the 
Company's future revenue or financial performance. 

The Company believes that net sales will remain below the level of the 
prior year's comparable periods through at least the first quarter of 1997, if
not later.  In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will be 
able to achieve sales levels in the first quarter of 1997 comparable to the 
levels achieved in the fourth quarter of 1996.

				13
<PAGE>

Gross Margin 

Gross margin represents the difference between the Company's net sales 
and its cost of goods sold.  The amount of revenue generated by the sale of 
products is influenced principally by the price set by the Company for its 
products relative to competitive products.  The cost of goods sold is based 
primarily on the cost of components and, to a lesser extent, direct labor 
costs.  The type and cost of components included in particular 
configurations of the Company's products (such as memory and disk 
drives) are often directly related to the need to market products in 
configurations competitive with those of other manufacturers.  
Competition in the personal computer industry is intense, and in the short 
term, frequent changes in pricing and product configuration are often 
necessary in order to remain competitive.  Accordingly, gross margin as a 
percentage of net sales can be significantly influenced in the short term by 
actions undertaken by the Company in response to industrywide 
competitive pressures.

Gross margin decreased to 9.8% in 1996 compared with 25.8% in 1995.  
This decrease is primarily the result of a $616 million charge in the second 
quarter of 1996 for the write-down of certain inventory, as well as the 
costs to cancel excess component orders, necessitated by significantly 
lower than expected demand for many of the Company's products, 
primarily its entry-level products.  Also, the Company separately incurred 
approximately $145 million in charges during the last nine months of 1996 
to provide for the estimated costs to correct certain quality problems in 
certain entry-level, Performa, PowerBook and peripheral products, 
covering both goods held in inventory and shipped goods.  The Company 
also incurred greater warranty expenses per unit sold during 1996 
compared with 1995.  In addition, this decrease in gross margins is due to 
the Company's response to extreme competitive actions by other 
companies attempting to gain market share, including the Company's 
pricing actions in the United States, Japan and Europe across most product 
lines, which were partially offset by a decrease in the cost of certain 
product components.  In the first quarter of 1997, the Company took, and 
the Company expects that it will continue to take, similar pricing actions 
with respect to a number of product lines.

The decrease in gross margin levels was slightly offset by hedging gains, 
net of the effects of a stronger U.S. dollar relative to certain foreign 
currencies.  The Company's operating and pricing strategies take into 
account changes in exchange rates over time; however, the Company's 
results of operations can be significantly affected in the short term by 
fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.   

Gross margin increased both in amount and as a percentage of net sales in 
1995 compared with 1994.  The increase in gross margin as a percentage 
of net sales was primarily a result of a shift in product mix toward the 
Company's newer, high-margin products, which included strong sales of 
certain products within the Company's Power Macintosh family of 
personal computers and its Macintosh Performa family.  The increase in 
gross margin levels was affected favorably by changes in foreign currency 
exchange rates as a result of a weaker U.S. dollar relative to certain foreign
currencies in 1995 compared with 1994. 

Although gross margin for 1996 was 9.8%, it improved to 22.0% during 
the fourth quarter, primarily as a result of lower component costs, sales of 
fully reserved product, and a shift in product mix toward the Company's 
newer products and products with multimedia configurations, which tend 
to have higher margins.  There can be no assurance that the Company will 
be able to sustain the gross margin level achieved in the fourth quarter.  
Gross margins will remain under significant downward pressure due to a 
variety of factors, including continued industrywide pricing pressures, 
increased competition, and compressed product life cycles.  Gross margins 
could also be affected by the Company's ability to effectively manage 
quality problems and warranty costs, and to stimulate demand for certain 
of its products.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Research and Development	1996	Change	1995	Change	1994
					
<S>				 <C>	  <C>	 <C>	 <C>	 <C>				
Research and development	$604     (2%)	$614      9%	$564         
  Percentage of net sales	6.1%		5.6%		6.1%
					
</TABLE>
Research and development expenditures decreased slightly in 1996 when 
compared with 1995, primarily due to the termination of certain third-party 
joint development efforts.  The increase as a percentage of net sales 
resulted from a decrease in the level of net sales. The increase in research 
and development expenditures during 1995 compared with 1994 reflected 
higher project- and headcount-related spending.  The decrease as a 
percentage of net sales was the result of revenue growth in 1995 over 
1994.

				14
<PAGE>

The Company believes that continued investments in research and 
development are critical to its future growth and competitive position in 
the marketplace and are directly related to continued, timely development 
of new and enhanced products.  The Company believes that research and 
development expenditures in 1997 will be comparable to those in 1996.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Selling, General and
Administrative			1996	Change	1995	Change	1994
					
<S>				 <C>	  <C>	 <C>	 <C>	 <C>					
Selling, general
and administrative	      $1,568     (1%) $1,583   	 14%  $1,384   
  Percentage of net sales      15.9%	       14.3%	       15.1%
</TABLE>
Selling, general and administrative expenses remained relatively flat, but 
increased as a percentage of net sales, in 1996 compared with 1995.  The 
increase as a percentage of net sales in 1996 when compared with 1995 
was the result of reduced net sales.  In 1995, selling, general and 
administrative expenses increased as a result of increased advertising and 
channel marketing programs.  The decrease as a percentage of net sales 
was primarily the result of the sales growth in 1995 over 1994.

As a result of its restructuring plan, the Company expects that selling, 
general and administrative expenditures in 1997 will decrease compared 
with 1996 levels. 

Restructuring Costs

For information regarding the Company's restructuring actions, refer to 
page 39 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Interest and Other
Income(Expense), Net	1996	Change	1995	Change	1994
					
<S>			 <C>	  <C>	  <C>	 <C>	  <C>					
Interest and other
income(expense), net	$ 88      NM 	$(10)    55% 	$(22)    
</TABLE>     					

Interest and other income (expense), net, increased to $88 million in 
income in 1996 from $10 million in expense in 1995.  This $98 million 
favorable change is primarily composed of a favorable variance of $78 
million related to net realized and unrealized foreign exchange hedging 
gains, and lower foreign exchange hedging costs, primarily as a result of 
lower market and option volatility, higher U.S. interest rates compared 
with rates abroad, and reduced foreign currency cash flows; an increase of 
$73 million related to realized gains on the sale of most of the Company's 
available-for-sale and other equity securities during 1996; offset by a $52 
million unfavorable variance related to interest income (expense), as a 
result of higher average debt balances and lower average cash balances 
during the year, and an overall decline in average interest rate yields. In
addition, the Company's cost of funds has increased as a result of the 
downgrading from January 1996 through May 1996 of its short-term debt 
to NP and C by Moody's Investor Services and Standard and Poor's Rating 
Agency, respectively, and of its long-term debt to B1 and B+ by Moody's 
Investor Services and Standard and Poor's Rating Agency, respectively.

In 1995, interest and other income (expense), net, decreased to $10 million 
in expense from $22 million in expense in 1994.  This $12 million 
favorable change was primarily composed of $49 million in interest 
income (expense) attributable to higher average cash balances, higher 
interest rates, and interest rate hedging gains, offset in part by a $36 
million unfavorable variance related to realized and unrealized foreign 
exchange hedging losses and foreign exchange hedging costs.  Market 
volatility and higher foreign currency balances accounted for the increased 
hedging costs.  

For a summary of the Company's interest and other income (expense), net, 
refer to page 37 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  For 
more information regarding the Company's strategy and accounting for 
financial instruments, refer to pages 33 - 36 of the Notes to Consolidated 
Financial Statements.  For more information regarding the Company's 
notes payable to banks and long-term debt, refer to pages 36 - 37 of the 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

				15
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Provision (Benefit)
for Income Taxes	1996	Change	1995	Change	1994
<S>			 <C>	 <C>	 <C>	 <C>	 <C>					
Provision (benefit)
for income taxes      $(479)      NM 	$250   	 32% 	$190
Effective tax rate	37%		 37%		 38%
</TABLE>
At September 27, 1996, the Company had deferred tax assets arising from 
deductible temporary differences, tax losses, and tax credits of $487 
million before being offset against certain deferred tax liabilities for 
presentation on the Company's balance sheet.  A substantial portion of this 
asset is realizable based on the ability to offset existing deferred tax 
liabilities. Realization of approximately $85 million of the asset is 
dependent on the Company's ability to generate approximately $245 
million of future U.S. taxable income.  Management believes that it is 
more likely than not that the asset will be realized based on forecasted U.S.
income.   However, there can be no assurance that the Company will meet 
its expectations of future U.S. income.  As a result, the amount of the 
deferred tax assets considered realizable could be reduced in the near and 
long term if estimates of future taxable U.S. income are reduced.  Such an 
occurrence could materially adversely affect the Company's financial 
results and condition.  The Company will continue to evaluate the 
realizability of the deferred tax assets quarterly by assessing the need for a 
valuation allowance.  For additional information regarding income taxes, 
refer to pages 40 - 41 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition

The Company's future operating results and financial condition are 
dependent on the Company's ability to successfully develop, manufacture, 
and market technologically innovative products in order to meet dynamic 
customer demand patterns.  Inherent in this process are a number of factors 
that the Company must successfully manage in order to achieve favorable 
future operating results and financial condition.  Potential risks and 
uncertainties that could affect the Company's future operating results and 
financial condition include, without limitation, continued competitive 
pressures in the marketplace and the effect of any reaction by the 
Company to such competitive pressures, including pricing actions by the 
Company; the ability of the Company to make timely delivery to the 
marketplace of successful technological innovations; the effects of 
significant adverse publicity; the Company's ability to supply products in 
certain categories; and uncertainties concerning the Company's ability to 
successfully implement its new strategic direction and restructuring 
actions.

The Company expects that it will not return to sustained profitability until 
at least the second quarter of 1997, if not later.

Restructuring of Operations

During 1996, the Company began to implement certain restructuring 
actions aimed at reducing its cost structure, improving its competitiveness, 
and restoring sustained profitability.  There are several risks inherent in the
Company's efforts to transition to a new cost structure.  These include the 
risk that the Company will not be able to reduce expenditures quickly 
enough to restore sustained profitability and the risk that cost-cutting 
initiatives will impair the Company's ability to innovate and remain 
competitive in the computer industry.  

As part of its restructuring effort, the Company has begun to implement a 
new business model. Implementation of the new business model involves 
several risks, including the risk that by simplifying its product line the 
Company will increase its dependence on fewer products, potentially 
reduce overall sales, and increase its reliance on unproven products and 
technology. Another risk of the new business model is that by increasing 
the proportion of the Company's products to be manufactured under 
outsourcing arrangements, the Company could lose control of the quality 
or quantity of the products manufactured, or lose the flexibility to make 
timely changes in production schedules in order to respond to changing 
market conditions. In addition, the new business model could adversely 
affect employee morale, thereby damaging the Company's ability to retain 
and motivate employees. Also, because the new business model contemplates that
the Company will rely to a greater extent on collaboration and licensing
arrangements with third parties, the Company will have less direct control
over certain of its research and development efforts, and its ability to create
innovative new products may be reduced. Finally, even if the new business model
is successfully implemented, there can be no assurance that it will effectively
resolve the various issues currently facing the Company. In addition,
although the Company believes that the actions it is taking under its
restructuring plan should help restore marketplace confidence in the
Macintosh platform, there can be no assurance that such actions will be
successful.
				16
<PAGE>

For the foregoing reasons there can be no assurance that the current 
restructuring actions will achieve their goals or that similar actions will not
be required in the future.  The Company's future operating results and 
financial condition could be adversely affected should it encounter 
difficulty in effectively managing the transition to the new business model 
and cost structure.

For more information regarding the Company's restructuring actions 
initiated in the second quarter of 1996, refer to page 39 of the 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Product Introductions and Transitions 

Due to the highly volatile nature of the personal computer industry, which 
is characterized by dynamic customer demand patterns and rapid 
technological advances, the Company frequently introduces new products 
and product enhancements.  The success of new product introductions is 
dependent on a number of factors, including market acceptance, the 
Company's ability to manage the risks associated with product transitions, 
the availability of application software for new products, the effective 
management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand, 
the availability of products in appropriate quantities to meet anticipated 
demand, and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects 
in the early stages of introduction.  Accordingly, the Company cannot 
determine the ultimate effect that new products will have on its sales or 
results of operations.  In addition, although the number of new product 
introductions may decrease under the Company's new business model, the 
risks and uncertainties associated with new product introductions may 
increase as the Company refocuses its product offerings on key growth 
segments.

The rate of product shipments immediately following introduction of a 
new product is not necessarily an indication of the future rate of shipments 
for that product, which depends on many factors, some of which are not 
under the control of the Company.  These factors may include initial large 
purchases by a small segment of the user population that tends to purchase 
new technology prior to its acceptance by the majority of users ("early 
adopters"); purchases in satisfaction of pent-up demand by users who 
anticipated new technology and, as a result, deferred purchases of other 
products; and overordering by dealers who anticipate shortages due to the 
aforementioned factors.  These factors may be offset by others, such as the 
deferral of purchases by many users until new technology is accepted as 
"proven" and for which commonly used software products are available; 
and the reduction of orders by dealers once they believe they can obtain 
sufficient supply of products previously in backlog. 

Backlog is often volatile after new product introductions due to the 
aforementioned demand factors, often increasing coincident with 
introduction, and then decreasing once dealers and customers believe they 
can obtain sufficient supply of the new products. 

The measurement of demand for newly introduced products is further 
complicated by the availability of different product configurations, which 
may include various types of built-in peripherals and software.  
Configurations may also require certain localization (such as language) for 
various markets and, as a result, demand in different geographic areas may 
be a function of the availability of third-party software in those localized 
versions.  For example, the availability of European-language versions of 
software products manufactured by U.S. producers may lag behind the 
availability of U.S. versions by a quarter or more. This may result in lower 
initial demand for the Company's new products outside the United States, 
even though localized versions of the Company's products may be 
available.

The increasing integration of functions and complexity of operations of the 
Company's products also increase the risk that latent defects or other faults
could be discovered by customers or end-users after volumes of products 
have been produced or shipped.  If such defects were significant, the 
Company could incur material recall and replacement costs under product 
warranties.

				17
<PAGE>

Competition

The personal computer industry is highly competitive and is characterized 
by aggressive pricing practices, downward pressure on gross margins, 
frequent introduction of new products, short product life cycles, continual 
improvement in product price/performance characteristics, price sensitivity 
on the part of consumers, and a large number of competitors.  During 
1996, the Company's results of operations and financial condition were, 
and in the future may continue to be, adversely affected by industrywide 
pricing pressures and downward pressures on gross margins.  The industry 
has also been characterized by rapid technological advances in software 
functionality and hardware performance and features based on existing or 
emerging industry standards.  Many of the Company's competitors have 
greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, and technological resources; 
broader product lines; and larger installed customer bases than those of the 
Company.

The Company's future operating results and financial condition may be 
affected by overall demand for personal computers and general customer 
preferences for one platform over another or one set of product features 
over another.

The Company is currently the primary maker of hardware that uses the 
Macintosh operating system ("Mac(registered trademark) OS").  The Mac OS has a
minority market share in the personal computer market, which is dominated by 
makers of computers that run the MS-DOS and Microsoft Windows 
operating systems.  The Company believes that the Mac OS, with its 
perceived advantages over MS-DOS and Windows, has been a driving 
force behind sales of the Company's personal computer hardware for the 
past several years.  Recent innovations in the Windows platform, including 
those introduced by Windows 95, have added features to the Windows 
platform similar to those offered by the Mac OS.  The Company is 
currently taking and will continue to take steps to respond to the 
competitive pressures being placed on its personal computer sales as a 
result of the recent innovations in the Windows platform.  The Company's 
future operating results and financial condition may be affected by its 
ability to maintain and increase the installed base for the Macintosh 
platform.  The Company recently announced a new strategy with respect to 
updating its operating system while redesigning its plan for a next-
generation operating system.  To extend the life of its current operating 
system, the Company intends to issue periodic releases consisting of 
discrete operating system components.  The Company expects that this 
will enable it to introduce some new functionality for the current operating 
system sooner than it would be able to introduce a completely new 
operating system.  Concurrently, the Company will continue development 
of its next-generation operating system, focusing on increased 
functionality at the possible expense of some backward compatibility.  
Diminished backward compatibility in its new operating system could 
result in a loss of existing customers.  Inability to introduce a next-
generation operating system on a timely basis, or to gain developer support 
and market accepatance for it, may have an adverse impact on the 
Company's operating results and financial condition.  

As part of its efforts to increase the installed base for the Macintosh 
platform, the Company announced the licensing of the Mac OS to other 
personal computer vendors in January 1995, as well as an additional 
licensing initiative in 1996.   Several vendors currently sell products that 
utilize the Macintosh operating system.  The Company believes that 
licensing the operating system will result in a broader installed base on 
which software vendors can develop and provide technical innovations for 
the Macintosh platform.  However, there can be no assurance that the 
installed base will be broadened by the licensing of the operating system or 
that licensing will result in an increase in the number of application 
software titles or the rate at which vendors will bring to market application
software based on the Mac OS.  In addition, as a result of licensing its 
operating system, the Company is forced to compete with other companies 
producing Mac OS-based computer systems.  The benefits to the Company 
from licensing the Mac OS to third parties may be more than offset by the 
disadvantages of being required to compete with them.

As a supplemental means of addressing the competition from MS-DOS 
and Windows, the Company has devoted substantial resources toward 
developing personal computer products capable of running application 
software designed for the MS-DOS or Windows operating systems 
("Cross-Platform Products"). These products include the RISC-based 
PowerPC(trademark) microprocessor and either include the Pentium or 586-class
microprocessor or can accommodate an add-on card containing a Pentium 
or 586-class microprocessor.  These products enable users to run 
concurrently applications that require the Mac OS, MS-DOS, Windows 
3.1, or Windows 95 operating systems. 

Depending on customer demand, the Company may supply customers who 
purchase Cross-Platform Products with Windows operating system 
software under licensing agreements with Microsoft.  However, in order to 
do so, the Company will need to enter into one or more agreements with 
certain Microsoft distributors.  

				18
<PAGE>

The Company, International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM") and 
Motorola, Inc. have agreed upon and announced the availability of 
specifications for a PowerPC microprocessor-based hardware reference 
platform.  These specifications define a "unified" personal computer 
architecture that gives access to both the Power Macintosh platform and 
the PC environment.  The Company's future operating results and financial 
condition may be affected by its ability to continue to implement this 
agreement and to manage the risk associated with the transition to this new 
hardware reference platform. 

Decisions by customers to purchase the Company's personal computers, as 
opposed to MS-DOS or Windows-based systems, are often based on the 
availability of third-party software for particular applications.  The 
Company believes that the availability of third-party application software 
for the Company's hardware products depends in part on third-party 
developers' perception and analysis of the relative benefits of developing, 
maintaining, and upgrading such software for the Company's products 
versus software for the larger MS-DOS and Windows market.  This 
analysis is based on factors such as the perceived strength of the Company 
and its products, the anticipated potential revenue that may be generated, 
and the costs of developing such software products.  To the extent the 
Company's recent financial losses and declining demand for the 
Company's product have caused software developers to question the 
Company's position in the personal computer market, developers could be 
less inclined to develop new application software or upgrade existing 
software for the Company's products and more inclined to devote their 
resources to developing and upgrading software for the larger MS-DOS 
and Windows market.  Microsoft Corporation is an important developer of 
application software for the Company's products.  Accordingly, 
Microsoft's interest in producing application software for the Company's 
products may be influenced by Microsoft's perception of its interests as the 
vendor of the Windows operating systems. 

The Company's ability to produce and market competitive products is also 
dependent on the ability of IBM and Motorola, Inc., the suppliers of the 
PowerPC RISC microprocessor for certain of the Company's products, to 
supply to the Company in adequate numbers microprocessors that produce 
superior price/performance results compared with those supplied to the 
Company's competitors by Intel Corporation, the developer and producer 
of the microprocessors used by most personal computers using the MS-
DOS and Windows operating systems.  IBM produces personal computers 
based on Intel microprocessors as well as workstations based on the 
PowerPC microprocessor, and is also the developer of OS/2, a competing 
operating system to the Company's Mac OS.  Accordingly, IBM's interest 
in supplying the Company with  microprocessors for the Company's 
products may be influenced by IBM's perception of its interests as a 
competing manufacturer of personal computers and as a competing 
operating system vendor.  

Several competitors of the Company, including Compaq, IBM, and 
Microsoft, have either targeted or announced their intention to target 
certain of the Company's key market segments, including education and 
publishing.  Many of these companies have greater financial, marketing, 
manufacturing, and technological resources than the Company.

The Company is integrating Internet capabilities into its new and existing 
hardware and software platforms.  There can be no assurance that the 
Company will be able to continue to do so successfully.  In addition, the 
Internet market is rapidly evolving and is characterized by an increasing 
number of market entrants who have introduced or developed products 
addressing access to, authoring for, or communication over, the Internet.  
Many of these competitors have a significant lead over the Company in 
developing products for the Internet, have significantly greater financial, 
marketing, manufacturing, and technological resources than the Company, 
or both.

The Company's future operating results and financial condition may also 
be affected by the Company's ability to successfully expand and capitalize 
on its investments in other markets, such as the markets for MessagePad
(registered trademark) and related products. 


				19
<PAGE>

Global Market Risks 

A large portion of the Company's revenue is derived from its international 
operations.  As a result, the Company's operations and financial results 
could be significantly affected by international factors, such as changes in 
foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions in the 
foreign markets in which the Company distributes its products.  When the 
U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies, the U.S. dollar value of 
non-U.S. dollar-based sales decreases.  When the U.S. dollar weakens, the 
U.S. dollar value of non-U.S. dollar-based sales increases. 
Correspondingly, the U.S. dollar value of non-U.S. dollar-based costs 
increases when the U.S. dollar weakens and decreases when the U.S. dollar 
strengthens.  Overall, the Company is a net receiver of currencies other 
than the U.S. dollar and, as such, benefits from a weaker dollar and is 
adversely affected by a stronger dollar relative to major currencies 
worldwide.  Accordingly, changes in exchange rates, and in particular a 
strengthening of the U.S. dollar, may negatively affect the Company's 
consolidated sales and gross margins (as expressed in U.S. dollars). 

To mitigate the short-term impact of fluctuating currency exchange rates 
on the Company's non-U.S. dollar-based sales, product procurement, and 
operating expenses, the Company regularly hedges its non-U.S. dollar-
based exposures.  Specifically, the Company enters into foreign exchange 
forward and option contracts to hedge firmly committed transactions.  
Currently, hedges of firmly committed transactions do not extend beyond 
one year.  The Company also purchases foreign exchange option contracts 
to hedge certain other probable but not firmly committed transactions.  
Hedges of probable but not firmly committed transactions currently do not 
extend beyond one year.  To reduce the costs associated with these 
ongoing foreign exchange hedging programs, the Company also regularly 
sells foreign exchange option contracts and enters into certain other 
foreign exchange transactions.  All foreign exchange forward and option 
contracts not accounted for as hedges, including all transactions intended 
to reduce the costs associated with the Company's foreign exchange 
hedging programs, are carried at fair value and are adjusted on each 
balance sheet date for changes in exchange rates.  

While the Company is exposed with respect to fluctuations in the interest 
rates of many of the world's leading industrialized countries, the 
Company's interest income and expense is most sensitive to fluctuations in 
the general level of U.S. interest rates.  In this regard, changes in U.S. 
interest rates affect the interest earned on the Company's cash, cash 
equivalents, and short-term investments as well as interest paid on its notes 
payable to banks and long-term debt.  To mitigate the impact of 
fluctuations in U.S. interest rates, the Company has entered into interest 
rate swap, collar, and floor transactions.  Certain of these transactions are 
intended to better match the Company's floating-rate interest income on its 
cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments with the fixed-rate 
interest expense on its long-term debt.  The Company also enters into these 
transactions in order to diversify a portion of the Company's exposure 
away from fluctuations in short-term U.S. interest rates.  These instruments 
may extend the Company's cash investment horizon up to a maximum 
duration of three years.

To ensure the adequacy and effectiveness of the Company's foreign 
exchange and interest rate hedge positions, as well as to monitor the risks 
and opportunities of the nonhedge portfolios, the Company continually 
monitors its foreign exchange forward and option positions, and its interest 
rate swap, option and floor positions both on a stand-alone basis and in 
conjunction with its underlying foreign currency- and interest rate-related 
exposures, respectively, from both an accounting and an economic 
perspective.  However, given the effective horizons of the Company's risk 
management activities, there can be no assurance that the aforementioned 
programs will offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact 
resulting from unfavorable movements in either foreign exchange or 
interest rates.  In addition, the timing of the accounting for recognition of 
gains and losses related to mark-to-market instruments for any given 
period may not coincide with the timing of gains and losses related to the 
underlying economic exposures and, therefore, may adversely affect the 
Company's operating results and financial position.  The Company 
generally does not engage in leveraged hedging. 

The Company's current financial condition may have an impact on the 
costs of its hedging transactions, as well as the willingness of its financial
counter-parties to enter into hedging transactions with the Company.

Inventory and Supply

In line with the Company's efforts to redesign its business model, the 
Company is taking steps to streamline its product portfolios in its key 
usage areas in education, business, and the home.  This planned 
simplification of product lines has resulted in inventory reserves.   
Cancelation fees related to custom component inventory purchased for 
anticipated product introductions that have been canceled have also been 
paid or accrued.  The Company has also separately provided for the 
estimated cost to correct certain quality problems in certain entry-level, 
Performa, PowerBook, and peripheral products.  Although the Company 
believes its inventory and related reserves are adequate, no assurance can 
be given that the Company will not incur additional inventory and related 
charges.

				20
<PAGE>

The Company must order components for its products and build inventory 
well in advance of product shipments.  Because the Company's markets are 
volatile and subject to rapid technology and price changes, there is a risk 
that the Company will forecast incorrectly and produce excess or 
insufficient inventories of particular products.  The Company's operating 
results and financial condition have been and may in the future be 
materially adversely affected by the Company's ability to manage its 
inventory levels and respond to short-term shifts in customer demand 
patterns.  

Certain of the Company's products are manufactured in whole or in part by 
third-party manufacturers, either pursuant to design specifications of the 
Company or otherwise.  As a result of the Company's restructuring actions, 
which include the sale of the Company's Fountain, Colorado, 
manufacturing facility to SCI Systems, Inc. ("SCI") and a related 
manufacturing outsourcing agreement with SCI, the proportion of the 
Company's products produced and distributed under outsourcing 
arrangements will increase.  While outsourcing arrangements may lower 
the fixed cost of operations, they will also reduce the direct control the 
Company has over production.  It is uncertain what effect such diminished 
control will have on the quality or quantity of the products manufactured, 
or the flexibility of the Company to respond to changing market 
conditions. Furthermore, any efforts by the Company to manage its 
inventory under outsourcing arrangements could subject the Company to 
liquidated damages or cancelation of the arrangement.  

Moreover, although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain 
provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the Company remains at 
least initially responsible to the ultimate consumer for warranty service.  
Accordingly, in the event of product defects or warranty liability, the 
Company may remain primarily liable.  Any unanticipated product defect 
or warranty liability, whether pursuant to arrangements with contract 
manufacturers or otherwise, could adversely affect the Company's future 
operating results and financial condition.

The Company's ability to satisfy demand for its products may be limited 
by the availability of key components.  The Company has experienced 
some limitations in supply of certain microprocessors in the first quarter of 
1996.  The Company believes that the availability from suppliers to the 
personal computer industry of microprocessors and ASICs presents the 
most significant potential for constraining the Company's ability to 
produce products.  Specific microprocessors manufactured by IBM and 
Motorola, Inc. are currently available only from single sources, while some 
advanced microprocessors are currently in the early stages of ramp-up for 
production and thus have limited availability.  The Company and other 
producers in the personal computer industry also compete for other 
semiconductor products with other industries that have experienced 
increased demand for such products, due to either increased consumer 
demand or increased use of semiconductors in their products (such as the 
cellular phone and automotive industries).  Finally, the Company uses 
some components that are not common to the rest of the personal computer 
industry (including certain microprocessors and ASICs).  Continued 
availability of these components may be affected if producers were to 
decide to concentrate on the production of common components instead of 
components customized to meet the Company's requirements.  Such 
product supply constraints and corresponding increased costs could 
decrease the Company's net sales and adversely affect the Company's 
operating results and financial condition.

Marketing and Distribution

A number of uncertainties may affect the marketing and distribution of the 
Company's products.  Currently, the Company's primary means of 
distribution is through third-party computer resellers. Such resellers 
include consumer channels such as mass-merchandise stores, consumer 
electronics outlets, and computer superstores.  The Company's business 
and financial results could be adversely affected if the financial condition 
of these resellers weakened or if resellers within consumer channels were 
to decide not to continue to distribute the Company's products.

Uncertainty over demand for the Company's products may cause resellers 
to reduce their ordering and marketing of the Company's products.  Under 
the Company's arrangements with its resellers, resellers have the option to 
reduce or eliminate unfilled orders previously placed, in most instances 
without financial penalty.  Resellers also have the option to return products 
to the Company without penalty within certain limits, beyond which they 
may be assessed fees.  The Company has recently experienced a reduction 
in ordering from historical levels by resellers due to uncertainty 
concerning the Company's condition and prospects.

Other Factors

The majority of the Company's research and development activities, its 
corporate headquarters, and other critical business operations, including 
certain major vendors, are located near major seismic faults. The 
Company's operating results and financial condition could be materially 
adversely affected in the event of a major earthquake.

				21
<PAGE>

Production and marketing of products in certain states and countries may 
subject the Company to environmental and other regulations which 
include, in some instances, the requirement that the Company provide 
consumers with the ability to return to the Company product at the end of 
its useful life, and leave responsibility for environmentally safe disposal or
recycling with the Company.  It is unclear what effect such regulation will 
have on the Company's future operating results and financial condition.

The Company is currently in the process of replacing its existing 
transaction systems (which include order management, product 
procurement, distribution, and finance) with a single integrated system as 
part of its ongoing effort to increase operational efficiency.  The 
Company's future operating results and financial condition could be 
adversely affected if the Company is unable to implement and effectively 
manage the transition to this new integrated system.  

As part of the Company's restructuring plan, the Company sold its Napa, 
California, data center to MCI Systemhouse ("MCI"), and entered into a 
data processing outsourcing agreement with MCI.  While this outsourcing 
agreement may lower the Company's fixed costs of operations, it will also 
reduce the direct control the Company has over its data processing.  It is 
uncertain what effect such diminished control will have on the Company's 
data processing.

Because of the foregoing factors, as well as other factors affecting the 
Company's operating results and financial condition, past financial 
performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future 
performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate 
results or trends in future periods.  In addition, the Company's 
participation in a highly dynamic industry often results in significant 
volatility of the Company's common stock price.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The Company's financial position with respect to cash, cash equivalents, 
and short-term investments, net of notes payable to banks, increased to 
$1,559 million at September 27, 1996, from $491 million at September 29, 
1995.  The Company's financial position with respect to cash, cash 
equivalents, and short-term investments increased to $1,745 million at 
September 27, 1996, from $952 million at September 29, 1995.    The 
Company's cash and cash equivalent balance at September 27, 1996, 
includes $177 million pledged as collateral to support letters of credit 
primarily associated with the Company's purchase commitments under the 
terms of the sale of the Company's Fountain, Colorado, manufacturing 
facility to SCI.  The Company's cash and cash equivalent balance at 
September 29, 1995, includes $90 million pledged as collateral to support 
notes payable to banks. 

Cash generated by operations during 1996 totaled $519 million.  Cash 
generated by operations was primarily the result of decreases in 
inventories and accounts receivable, partially offset by decreases in 
accounts payable and deferred tax liabilities.  As part of the Company's 
restructuring plan and in order to meet certain liquidity requirements 
during 1996, the Company generated $145 million of cash from the sale of 
certain equity investments, and the sale of the Fountain, Colorado, 
manufacturing facility to SCI and the Napa, California, data center to MCI.  
The Company expects that cash generated from the sale of equity 
investments and property, plant and equipment will be significantly less in 
1997 compared with 1996.  Net cash used for the purchase of property, 
plant, and equipment totaled $67 million in 1996, and consisted primarily 
of increases in manufacturing machinery and equipment.  The Company 
expects that the level of capital expenditures in 1997 will be comparable to 
1996.

Notes payable to banks at September 27, 1996, were approximately $275 
million lower than at September 29, 1995.  During 1996, an outstanding 
loan to Apple Computer B.V., a subsidiary of the Company, was repaid in 
full.  At September 27, 1996, Apple Japan, Inc., a subsidiary of the 
Company, held $186 million of notes payable to several banks, with 
maturity dates ranging from the end of December 1996 to May 1997.  The 
majority of these loans are guaranteed by the Company.

The Company's balance of long-term debt increased during 1996 due to the 
issuance of $661 million aggregate principal amount of 6% unsecured 
convertible subordinated notes to certain qualified parties in a private 
placement.  These notes were sold at 100% of par.  These notes pay 
interest semi-annually and mature on June 1, 2001.  The remainder of 
long-term borrowings consists of $300 million aggregate principal amount 
of 6.5% unsecured notes issued under an omnibus shelf registration 
statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in 1994.  
The notes were sold at 99.925% of par, for an effective yield to maturity of 
6.51%.  The notes pay interest semi-annually and mature on February 15, 
2004.  For more information regarding the Company's long-term debt, 
refer to pages XX-XX of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

				22
<PAGE>


The Internal Revenue Service has proposed federal income tax deficiencies 
for the years 1984 through 1991, and the Company has made certain 
prepayments thereon.  The Company contested the proposed deficiencies 
for the years 1984 through 1988, and most of the issues in dispute for these 
years have been resolved.  On June 29, 1995, the IRS issued a notice of 
deficiency proposing increases to the amount of the Company's federal 
income taxes for the years 1989 through 1991.  The Company has filed a 
petition with the United States Tax Court to contest these alleged tax 
deficiencies.  Management believes that adequate provision has been made 
for any adjustments that may result from these tax examinations. 

The Company's cost of funds has increased as a result of the downgrading 
from January 1996 through May 1996 of its short-term debt to NP and C 
by Moody's Investor Services and Standard and Poor's Rating Agency, 
respectively, and of its long-term debt to B1 and B+ by Moody's Investor 
Services and Standard and Poor's Rating Agency, respectively.  In 
addition, the Company may be required to pledge additional collateral with 
respect to certain of its borrowings and letters of credit and to agree to 
more stringent covenants than in the past.  The Company believes that its 
balances of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, together 
with continued short-term borrowings from banks, will be sufficient to 
meet its operating and other cash requirements, including the impact of 
planned restructuring actions, on a short- and long-term basis.  No 
assurance can be given that short-term borrowings from banks can be 
continued, or that any additional required financing could be obtained 
should the restructuring plan take longer to implement than anticipated or 
be unsuccessful.  If the Company is unable to obtain such financing, its 
liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially 
adversely affected. 
























				23
<PAGE>

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data


	
	
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS		Page
	
Financial Statements:	
Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors	25
Consolidated Balance Sheets at September 27, 1996,
and September 29, 1995					26
Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three
fiscal years ended September 27, 1996			27
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for
the three fiscal years ended September 27, 1996		28
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the three
fiscal years ended September 27, 1996			29
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements		30
Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)	49
Financial Statement Schedule:	
For the three fiscal years ended September 27, 1996	
   Schedule II - Valuation and qualifying accounts	S-1
	
All other schedules have been omitted, since the required information is 
not present or is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of 
the schedule, or because the information required is included in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto.



































				24
<PAGE>

REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

The Shareholders and Board of Directors of Apple Computer, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Apple 
Computer, Inc. as of September 27, 1996 and September 29, 1995, and the 
related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders' equity, and 
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended September 27, 
1996.  Our audits also include the financial statement schedule listed in the 
Index to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  These financial 
statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company's 
management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial 
statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to 
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free 
of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, 
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles 
used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating 
the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits 
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above 
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position 
of Apple Computer, Inc. at September 27, 1996 and September 29, 1995, 
and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of 
the three years in the period ended September 27, 1996, in conformity with 
generally accepted accounting principles.  Also, in our opinion, the related 
financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic 
financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all material respects 
the information set forth therein.





/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Ernst & Young LLP

San Jose, California
October 14, 1996


























				25
<PAGE>

Consolidated Balance Sheets

(Dollars in millions)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
September 27, 1996, and September 29, 1995
					1996		1995
<S>			 		   <C>	          <C>		
Assets:			
Current assets:			
Cash and cash equivalents		$1,552    	$ 756 
Short-term investments			   193   	  196
Accounts receivable, net of allowance
for doubtful accounts of $91($87 in 1995)1,496		1,931
Inventories:			
  Purchased parts			   213		  841
  Work in process			    43		  291
  Finished goods			   406		  643
					   662		1,775
Deferred tax assets 			   342		  251
Other current assets			   270		  315
  Total current assets			 4,515		5,224
Property, plant, and equipment:			
Land and buildings			   480		  504
Machinery and equipment			   544		  638
Office furniture and equipment		   136		  145
Leasehold improvements			   188		  205
					 1,348		1,492
Accumulated depreciation and
amortization				  (750)		 (781)
  Net property, plant, and equipment	   598		  711
Other assets				   251		  296
					$5,364        $ 6,231 
Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity:			
Current liabilities:			
Notes payable to banks			$  186        $   461   
Accounts payable			   791		1,165
Accrued compensation and employee benefits 120		  131
Accrued marketing and distribution	   257		  206
Accrued warranty and related		   181		   85
Accrued restructuring costs		   117		   --
Other current liabilities		   351		  277
   Total current liabilities		 2,003		2,325
Long-term debt				   949		  303
Deferred tax liabilities		   354		  702
Commitments and contingencies		   			
Shareholders' equity:			
Common stock, no par value;
320,000,000 shares authorized;
124,496,972 shares issued and
outstanding in 1996
(122,921,601 shares in 1995)		   439		  398		 		   
Retained earnings			 1,634		2,464		 
Other 					   (15)		   39
   Total shareholders' equity		 2,058		2,901
					$5,364 	       $6,231
</TABLE>
			
See accompanying notes.




				26
<PAGE>

Consolidated Statements of Operations

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>		
Three fiscal years ended September 27, 1996	1996	1995	1994
<S>			 		   	 <C>	 <C>	 <C>
Net sales				     $ 9,833 $11,062 $ 9,189
Costs and expenses:			
Cost of sales				       8,865   8,204   6,846
Research and development			 604	 614	 564
Selling, general and administrative	       1,568   1,583   1,384
Restructuring costs 				 179	(23)   (127)
					      11,216  10,378   8,667
Operating income (loss)			     (1,383)	 684	 522
Interest and other income (expense), net	  88	(10)	(22)
Income (loss) before provision (benefit)
for income taxes			     (1,295)	 674	 500
Provision (benefit) for income taxes	       (479)	 250	 190
Net income (loss)	                     $ (816) $   424 $   310     
Earnings (loss) per common and
common equivalent share			     $(6.59) $  3.45 $  2.61           
Common and common equivalent shares used in 			
the calculations of earnings(loss) per share 
(in thousands)				     123,734 123,047 118,735
</TABLE>
			

See accompanying notes.





























				27
<PAGE>

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)  
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
		Common Stock					Total
		Shares			Retained		Shareholders'
		(in thousands)	Amount	Earnings	Other	Equity					
	

<S>		    <C>	         <C>	   <C>		  <C>      <C>
Balance at
September 24,
1993		116,147	  	$204	$1,843		$(20)	$2,027
Common stock
issued under
stock option
and purchase plans,
including related
tax benefits	  3,396		  94	    --		  --	    94
Cash dividends
of $0.48 per
common share	    --		  --	   (57)		  --	   (57)
Accumulated
translation
adjustment	    --		  --	    --		    9	     9
Net income	    --		  --	   310		  --	   310
Balance at
September 30,
1994		119,543		 298  	 2,096		 (11)  	 2,383 
Common stock
issued under
stock option and
purchase plans,
including related
tax benefits	  3,379	  	 100	    --		  --	   100
Cash dividends of
$0.48 per common
share		    --		  --	   (58)		  --	   (58)
Accumulated
translation
adjustment	    --		  --	    --		    6	     6
Change in
unrealized gains
(losses) on
available-for-sale
securities	    --	 	  --	    --	           44	    44
Net income	    --	          --	   424		   --	   424
Other		    --		  --	     2		   --	     2
Balance at
September 29,
1995		122,922	   	 398     2,464		   39  	 2,901  
Common stock
issued under
stock option and
purchase plans,
including related
tax benefits	  1,575		  41	    --		   --	    41
Cash dividends of
$0.12 per common
share		    --		  --	   (14)		   --	   (14)
Accumulated
translation
adjustment	    --		  --	    --		 (12)	   (12)
Change in
unrealized gains
(losses) on
available-for-sale
securities	    --		  --	    --		 (42)	   (42)
Net loss	    --		  --	  (816)		   --	  (816)
Balance at
September 27,
1996		124,497		$439	$1,634		$(15)	$2,058
</TABLE>
See accompanying notes.















				28
<PAGE>

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
(Dollars in millions)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>		
Three fiscal years ended September 27, 1996		1996	1995	1994
<S>		    					 <C>	 <C>	 <C>		
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of the period     $ 756  $1,203   $ 676   
Operating:			
Net income (loss)	 				(816)	 424	 310
Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to cash 			
    generated by (used for) operations:			
    Depreciation and amortization	  		 156	 127	 168
    Net book value of property, plant, and equipment              
    retirements						  70	   6	  11
Changes in assets and liabilities: 			
   Accounts receivable	  				 435	(350)	(199)
   Inventories					       1,113	(687)	 418
   Deferred tax assets 	   				 (91)	  42	 (25)
   Other current assets	    				  45	 (59)	  34
   Accounts payable	 				(374)	 283	 139
   Accrued restructuring costs	  			 117	 (47)	(250)
   Other current liabilities	  			 212	 (10)	  90
   Deferred tax liabilities	 			(348)	  31	  41
        Cash generated by (used for) operating
	activities	  				 519	(240)	 737
			
Investing:			
Purchase of short-term investments			(437) (1,672)	(312)
Proceeds from sale of short-term investments	 	 440   1,531	 474
Purchase of property, plant, and equipment	 	 (67)	(159)	(160)
Other	 						 (55)	(102)	  (4)
        Cash used for investing activities		(119)	(402)	  (2)
			
Financing:			
Increase (decrease) in notes payable to banks		(275)	 169	(531)
Increase (decrease) in long-term borrowings	 	 646	  (2)	 297
Increases in common stock, net of related tax benefits 	  39	  86	  82
Cash dividends						 (14)	 (58)	 (56)
        Cash generated by (used for) financing
	activities					 396	 195	(208)
			
Total cash generated (used) 				 796	(447)	 527
Cash and cash equivalents, end of the period	      $1,552   $ 756  $1,203   
			
Supplemental cash flow disclosures:			
  Cash paid during the year for:			
     Interest					      $   49   $  49  $   34     
     Income taxes, net				      $   33   $ 188  $   46   
 			
Noncash transaction: tax benefit from stock options   $    2   $  15  $   12     
</TABLE>			
See accompanying notes.




				29
<PAGE>

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


Nature of Operations 

Apple Computer (the "Company") designs, manufactures, and markets 
microprocessor-based personal computers and related personal computing 
products for sale primarily to education, home, business, and government 
customers.

Basis of Presentation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Apple 
Computer, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the Company).  Intercompany 
accounts and transactions have been eliminated.  The Company's fiscal 
year-end is the last Friday in September.

Accounting Estimates

General
The preparation of these consolidated financial statements in conformity 
with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to 
make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in these 
consolidated  financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results 
could differ materially from those estimates.

Significant Accounting Estimates
Reserves Against Inventories
The Company's reserves against inventories are based on the Company's 
best estimates of product sales prices and customer demand patterns, 
and/or its plans to transition its products.  However, the Company 
participates in a highly competitive industry that is characterized by 
aggressive pricing practices, downward pressures on gross margins, 
frequent introductions of new products, short product life cycles, rapid 
technological advances, continual improvement in product 
price/performance characteristics, and price sensitivity and changing 
demand patterns on the part of consumers.  As a result of the industry's 
ever-changing and dynamic nature, it is at least reasonably possible that 
the estimates used by the Company to determine its reserves against 
inventories will be materially different from the actual amounts or results.  
These differences could result in materially higher than expected inventory 
reserve costs, which could have a materially adverse effect on the 
Company's results of operations and financial condition in the near term.

Warranty and Related Accruals
The Company's warranty and related accruals are based on the Company's 
best estimates of product failure rates and unit costs to repair.  However, 
the Company is continually releasing new and ever-more complex and 
technologically advanced products.  As a result, it is at least reasonably 
possible that product could be released with certain unknown quality 
and/or design problems.  Such an occurrence could result in materially 
higher than expected warranty and related costs, which could have a 
materially adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and 
financial condition in the near term.

Deferred Tax Assets
Realization of approximately $85 million of the total deferred tax assets is 
dependent on the Company's ability to generate approximately $245 
million of future U.S. taxable income.  Management believes that it is 
more likely than not that the asset will be realized based on forecasted U.S. 
income.   However, there can be no assurance that the Company will meet 
its expectations of future U.S. income.  As a result, the amount of the 
deferred tax assets considered realizable could be reduced in the near and 
long term if estimates of future taxable U.S. income are reduced.  Such an 
occurrence could materially adversely affect the Company's results of 
operations and financial condition.  The Company will continue to 
evaluate the realizability of the deferred tax assets quarterly by assessing 
the need for a valuation allowance. 

				30
<PAGE>


Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Financial Instruments 
Investments
All highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less at the 
date of purchase are considered to be cash equivalents; investments with 
maturities between three and twelve months are considered to be short-
term investments.  There are no investments with maturities greater than 
twelve months.  The Company's cash equivalents consist primarily of U.S. 
Government securities, Euro-dollar deposits, and commercial paper.  
Short-term investments consist principally of Euro-dollar deposits and 
commercial paper.  The Company's cash equivalents and short-term 
investments are generally held until maturity.  The Company's marketable 
equity securities consist of securities issued by U.S. corporations and are 
included in "Other assets" on the accompanying balance sheets. 

Management determines the appropriate classification of its debt and 
marketable equity securities at the time of purchase and reevaluates such 
designation as of each balance sheet date.  The Company's debt and 
marketable equity securities have been classified and accounted for as 
available-for-sale.  These securities are carried at fair value, with the 
unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, reported as a component of 
shareholders' equity.  These unrealized gains or losses include any 
unrealized losses and gains on interest rate contracts accounted for as 
hedges against the available-for-sale securities.  Equity securities that are 
not considered marketable as defined are carried at cost.  Realized gains 
and losses on the sale of securities are included in interest and other 
income (expense), net.  The cost of securities sold is based on the specific 
identification method. 

Financial Instruments with Off-Balance-Sheet Risk
In the ordinary course of business and as part of the Company's asset and 
liability management, the Company enters into various types of 
transactions that involve contracts and financial instruments with off-
balance-sheet risk.  These instruments are entered into in order to manage 
financial market risk, primarily interest rate and foreign exchange risk.  
The Company enters into these financial instruments with major 
international financial institutions utilizing over-the-counter as opposed to 
exchange traded instruments.  The Company does not hold or transact in 
financial instruments for purposes other than risk management. 

Gains and losses on accounting hedges of existing assets or liabilities are 
recorded currently in income or shareholder's equity against the losses and 
gains on the hedged transactions.  Gains and losses related to qualifying 
accounting hedges of firmly committed or probable but not firmly 
committed transactions are deferred until the occurrence of the hedged 
transactions.  Gains and losses on interest rate and foreign exchange 
contracts that do not qualify as accounting hedges are recorded currently in 
income.

The Company monitors its interest rate and foreign exchange positions 
daily based on applicable and commonly used pricing models.  The 
correlation between the changes in the fair value of hedging instruments 
and the changes in the underlying hedged items is assessed periodically 
over the life of the hedged instrument.  In the event that it is determined 
that a hedge is ineffective, the Company recognizes in income the change 
in market value of the instrument beginning on the date it was no longer an 
effective hedge.  

Interest Rate Derivatives
The Company enters into interest rate derivative transactions, including 
interest rate swaps, collars, and floors, with financial institutions in order
to better match the Company's floating-rate interest income on its cash 
equivalents and short-term investments with the fixed-rate interest expense 
of its long-term debt, and/or to diversify a portion of the Company's 
exposure away from fluctuations in short-term U.S. interest rates.   The 
Company may also enter into interest rate contracts that are intended to 
reduce the cost of the interest rate risk management program.

In addition, the Company enters into foreign exchange forward contracts to 
hedge certain intercompany loan transactions.  These forward contracts 
effectively change certain foreign currency denominated debt into U.S. 
dollar denominated debt, which better matches against the Company's U.S. 
dollar denominated cash equivalents and short-term investments. 

				31
<PAGE>


Foreign Currency Instruments
The Company enters into foreign exchange forward and option contracts 
with financial institutions primarily to protect against currency exchange 
risks associated with certain firmly committed and certain other probable 
but not firmly committed transactions.  The Company's foreign exchange 
risk management policy requires it to hedge a majority of its existing 
material foreign exchange transaction exposures.  However, the Company 
may not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures that are 
immaterial either in terms of their minimal U.S. dollar value or in terms of 
their historically high correlation with the U.S. dollar.   

Probable but not firmly committed transactions comprise sales of the 
Company's products in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.  A majority of 
these non-U.S. dollar-based sales are made through the Company's 
subsidiaries in Europe, Asia (particularly Japan), Canada, and Australia.  
The Company also purchases foreign exchange option contracts to hedge 
certain other probable but not firmly committed transactions.  The 
Company also sells foreign exchange option contracts, in order to partially 
finance the purchase of foreign exchange option contracts used to hedge 
both firmly committed and certain other probable but not firmly committed 
transactions.  In addition, the Company enters into other foreign exchange 
transactions, which are intended to reduce the costs associated with its 
foreign exchange risk management programs.  The duration of foreign 
exchange hedging instruments, whether for firmly committed transactions 
or for probable but not firmly committed transactions, currently does not 
exceed one year.

For further information regarding the Company's accounting treatment of 
its financial instruments, refer to pages 33 - 36 of the Notes to 
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market. If
the cost of the inventories exceeds their market value, provisions are made 
currently for the difference between the cost and the market value.

Property, Plant, and Equipment
Property, plant, and equipment is stated at cost.  Depreciation and 
amortization is computed by use of the declining balance and straight-line 
methods over the estimated useful lives of the assets.

Long-Lived Assets
Effective September 30, 1995, the Company adopted Financial Accounting 
Standard No. 121 ("FAS 121"), "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-
Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed Of."  In 
accordance with FAS 121, prior period financial statements have not been 
restated to reflect this change in accounting principle and the cumulative 
effect of this change was not material. 

Stock-Based Compensation
The Company has not elected early adoption of Financial Accounting 
Standard No. 123 ("FAS 123"), "Accounting for Stock-Based 
Compensation."  FAS 123 becomes effective for the Company in 1997, 
and will have no impact on the Company's results of operations and 
financial condition as the Company has elected to continue measuring 
compensation expense for its stock-based employee compensation plans 
using the intrinsic value method prescribed by APB Opinion No. 25, 
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees."  However, the Company will 
provide pro forma disclosures of net income and earnings per share as if 
the fair value-based method prescribed by FAS 123 had been applied in 
measuring compensation expense.

Foreign Currency Translation  
The Company translates the assets and liabilities of its foreign sales 
subsidiaries at year-end exchange rates.  Gains and losses from these 
translations are credited or charged to "accumulated translation 
adjustment" included in shareholders' equity.  The foreign manufacturing 
and certain other entities use the U.S. dollar as the functional currency and 
translate monetary assets and liabilities at year-end exchange rates, and 
inventories, property, and non-monetary assets and liabilities at historical  
rates.  Gains and losses from these translations are included in the results 
of operations and are immaterial.  

				32
<PAGE>


Revenue Recognition
The Company recognizes revenue at the time products are shipped.  
Provisions are made currently for estimated product returns and price 
protection that may occur under Company programs.  Historically, actual 
amounts recorded for product returns and price protection have not varied 
significantly from estimated amounts. 

Warranty Expense
The Company provides currently for the estimated cost that may be 
incurred under product warranties when products are shipped.

Advertising Costs 
Advertising costs are charged to expense the first time the advertising 
takes place. 

Earnings (Loss) per Share
Earnings (loss) per share is computed using the weighted average number 
of common shares outstanding and (in 1995 and 1994 only) the dilutive 
effect of common stock options using the treasury stock method.  Common 
stock options, the convertible subordinated notes, and certain common 
shares issued pending shareholder approval were not included in the 
computation of loss per share in 1996 as their effect was antidilutive.
 
Reclassifications
Certain prior year amounts in the Industry Segment and Geographic 
Information footnote have been reclassified to conform to the current 
year's presentation.

Financial Instruments

Investments
The following table summarizes the Company's available-for-sale 
securities as of September 27, 1996:
	
								(In millions)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION> 
					Gross		Gross
			 Amortized	Unrealized	Unrealized   Estimated
			 Cost		Gains		Losses	     Fair Value

<S>		    	     <C>	   <C>	           <C>		 <C>				
U.S. Treasury securities
and obligations of U.S.
government agencies	 $   86    	$   --		$   --       $   86
U.S. corporate debt
securities		    330		    --		    --		330
Foreign government
securities		  1,098		    --		    --	      1,098
   Total included in
   cash and cash
   equivalents		 $1,514    	$   --      	$   --	     $1,514
					
U.S. corporate debt
securities		 $   --      	$   --		$   --	     $   --
Foreign government
securities		    193		    --		    --		193
   Total included in
   short-term
   investments		 $  193    	$   --		$   --	     $  193
					
Equity securities	 $   --       	$    2    	$   --	     $    2
   Total included in
   other assets		 $   --       	$    2    	$   --	     $    2
					 
 Total			 $1,707 	$    2    	$   --	     $1,709
					
</TABLE>
				33
<PAGE>



The following table summarizes the Company's available-for-sale securities
as of September 29, 1995:

							(In millions)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
					Gross		Gross
			 Amortized	Unrealized	Unrealized   Estimated
			 Cost		Gains		Losses	     Fair Value

<S>		    	    <C>	           <C>	    	   <C>		<C>			
U.S. Treasury securities
and obligations of U.S.
government agencies	 $  232		$   --		$   --	     $  232
U.S. corporate debt
securities		    140		    --		    --		140
Foreign government
securities		    456		     2		    --		458
   Total included in cash
   and cash equivalents	 $  828		$    2		$   --	     $  830
					
U.S. corporate
debt securities		 $   48		$   --		$   --	     $   48
Foreign government
securities		    146		    --		    --		146
   Total included in
   short-term investments$  194		$   --		$   --	     $  194
					
Equity securities	 $    1		$   42		$   --	     $   43
   Total included in
   other assets		 $    1		$   42		$   --	     $   43
					
 Total			 $1,023		$   44		$   --	     $1,067
</TABLE>
					

The gross realized gains recorded to earnings on sales of available-for-sale 
securities, as well as the related cash proceeds from those sales, were $15 
million and $1 million in 1996 and 1995, respectively.  There were no 
gross realized losses recorded to earnings on sales of available-for-sale 
securities in 1996 or 1995.

The Company's cash and cash equivalent balance at September 27, 1996, 
includes $177 million pledged primarily as collateral to support letters of 
credit, and at September 29, 1995, includes $90 million pledged as 
collateral to support notes payable to banks.

Interest Rate Derivatives and Foreign Currency Instruments
The table on page 35 shows the notional principal, fair value, and credit 
risk amounts of the Company's interest rate derivative and foreign 
currency instruments as of September 27, 1996, and September 29, 1995.  
The notional principal amounts for off-balance-sheet instruments provide 
one measure of the transaction volume outstanding as of year end, and do 
not represent the amount of the Company's exposure to credit or market 
loss.  The credit risk amount shown in the table below represents the 
Company's gross exposure to potential accounting loss on these 
transactions if all counterparties failed to perform according to the terms of
the contract, based on then-current currency exchange and interest rates at 
each respective date.  The Company's exposure to credit loss and market 
risk will vary over time as a function of interest rates and currency 
exchange rates. 

The estimates of fair value are based on applicable and commonly used 
pricing models using prevailing financial market information as of 
September 27, 1996, and September 29, 1995.  In certain instances where 
judgment is required in estimating fair value, price quotes were obtained 
from several of the Company's counterparty financial institutions.  
Although the table below reflects the notional principal, fair value, and 
credit risk amounts of the Company's interest rate and foreign exchange 
instruments, it does not reflect the gains or losses associated with the 
exposures and transactions that the interest rate and foreign exchange 
instruments are intended to hedge.  The amounts ultimately realized upon 
settlement of these financial instruments, together with the gains and losses 
on the underlying exposures, will depend on actual market conditions 
during the remaining life of the instruments.

				34
<PAGE>


							     (In millions)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION> 
			    1996			   1995

				    Credit			    Credit	
		Notional    Fair    Risk	Notional    Fair    Risk
		Principal   Value   Amount	Principal   Value   Amount		
<S>		    <C>	       <C>	<C>        <C>	       <C>     <C>
Transactions
Qualifying as
Accounting
Hedges							
							
Interest rate
instruments							
   Swaps	$  315      $  (13) $   --      $  450	    $   (7) $    2
   Interest
   rate collars	$   80      $   --  $   --	$  105	    $   --  $   --
   Purchased
   floors	$  475	    $    1  $    1	$   --	    $   --  $   --
   Sold options	$   --      $   --  $   --	$  150	    $   --  $   --
							
Foreign exchange
instruments							
   Spot/Forward
   contracts	$2,035 	    $    9  $   16      $1,211	    $   16  $   23
   Purchased
   options	$1,475 	    $    9  $    9      $1,441	    $   32  $   32
							
Transactions
Other Than
Accounting
Hedges							
							
Interest rate
instruments							
   Swaps	$   --      $   --  $   --	$   10	    $   --  $   --
   Sold options	$   --      $   --  $   --	$  100	    $   (1) $   --
							
Foreign
exchange
instruments							
   Spot/Forward
   contracts	$  182	    $   --  $   --	$   --	    $   --  $   --
   Purchased
   options	$  606 	    $    8  $    8      $3,046	    $  134  $  134
   Sold options	$  506 	    $   (6) $   --	$6,082	    $  (83) $   --
</TABLE>							

The interest rate swaps generally require the Company to pay a floating 
interest rate based on the three- or six-month U.S. dollar LIBOR and 
receive a fixed rate of interest without exchanges of the underlying 
notional amounts.  As a result, these swaps effectively convert the 
Company's fixed-rate ten-year debt to floating-rate debt and generally 
qualify for hedge accounting treatment.  Maturity dates for these swaps 
currently range from one to seven years.  At September 27, 1996, and 
September 29, 1995, interest rate swaps classified as receive-fixed swaps 
had weighted average receive rates of  6.04% and 5.89%, respectively.  
Weighted average pay rates on these swaps were 5.82% and 5.88% at 
September 27, 1996, and September 29, 1995, respectively.  The 
unrealized gains and losses on these swaps are generally deferred and 
recognized in income in the same period as the hedged transaction.  
Deferred losses on such contracts totaled approximately $13 million and 
$9 million at September 27, 1996, and September 29, 1995, respectively.

Interest rate collars limit the Company's exposure to fluctuations in short-
term interest rates by locking in a range of interest rates. An interest rate
collar is a no-cost structure that consists of a purchased option and a sold
option. The Company receives a payment when the three-month LIBOR 
falls below predetermined levels, and makes a payment when the three-
month LIBOR rises above predetermined levels. The entire structure 
generally qualifies as an accounting hedge.  Purchased floors limit the 
Company's exposure to falling interest rates on its cash equivalents and 
short-term investments by locking in a minimum interest rate.  The 
Company receives a payment when interest rates fall below a 
predetermined level.  A purchased floor generally qualifies for hedge 
accounting treatment and is reported on the balance sheet at its premium 
cost, which is amortized over the life of the floor.  The interest rate collars
and purchased floors are generally designated and effective as hedges 
against interest rate risk on the Company's debt securities classified as 
available-for-sale and are carried at fair value as an adjustment to the basis
of the underlying security.  The related unrealized gains and losses,net of 
taxes, are reported as a component of shareholders' equity and are 
recognized in income in the same period as the hedged transaction.  
Unrealized gains and losses on such contracts were immaterial at 
September 27, 1996, and September 29, 1995. 



				35
<PAGE>



Interest rate option contracts require the Company to make payments 
should certain interest rates either fall below or rise above predetermined 
levels.  These contracts are generally not accounted for as hedges and are 
carried at fair value with gains and losses recorded currently in income as a 
component of interest and other income (expense), net.

The foreign exchange forward contracts not accounted for as hedges are 
carried at fair value with gains and losses recorded currently in income as a 
component of interest and other income (expense), net.  The foreign 
exchange forward contracts that are designated and effective as hedges are 
also carried at fair value with gains and losses recorded currently in 
income as a component of interest and other income (expense), net, against 
the losses and gains on the hedged transactions.  All foreign exchange 
forward contracts expire within one year.

The premium costs of purchased foreign exchange option contracts that are 
designated and effective as hedges are amortized over the life of the 
option.  If the option contract is designated and effective as a hedge of a 
firmly committed transaction, or a probable but not firmly committed 
transaction, then any gain or loss is deferred until the occurrence of the 
hedged transaction.  Deferred gains and losses on such contracts were 
immaterial at September 27, 1996, and September 29, 1995.  If the option 
contract is used to hedge an asset or liability, then the hedge is carried at
fair value with gains or losses recorded currently in income as a 
component of interest and other income (expense), net, against the losses 
or gains on the hedged transaction.  As of September 27, 1996, maturity 
dates for purchased foreign exchange option contracts ranged from one to 
twelve months.

The purchased and sold foreign exchange option contracts not accounted 
for as hedges are carried at fair value with gains and losses recorded 
currently in income as a component of interest and other income 
(expense), net.  As of September 27, 1996, maturity dates for sold option 
contracts ranged from one to six months.

The Company monitors its interest rate and foreign exchange positions 
daily based on applicable and commonly used pricing models.  The 
correlation between the changes in the fair value of hedging instruments 
and the changes in the underlying hedged items is assessed periodically 
over the life of the hedged instrument.  In the event that it is determined 
that a hedge is ineffective, the Company recognizes in income the change 
in market value of the instrument beginning on the date it was no longer an 
effective hedge.  

Notes Payable to Banks

The weighted average interest rates for Japanese yen-denominated notes 
payable to banks at September 27, 1996, and September 29, 1995, were 
approximately 1.3% and 2.2%, respectively.  The Company had no U.S. 
dollar-denominated notes payable to banks at September 27, 1996.  The 
weighted average interest rate for U.S. dollar-denominated notes payable 
to banks at September 29, 1995, was approximately 6.2%.

The carrying amount of notes payable to banks approximates their fair 
value due to their short-term maturities.


				36
<PAGE>


  

Long-Term Debt
During 1996, the Company issued $661 million aggregate principal 
amount of 6% unsecured convertible subordinated notes (the "Notes") to 
certain qualified parties in a private placement.  The Notes were sold at 
100% of par.  The Notes pay interest semi-annually and mature on June 1, 
2001.  The Notes are convertible by their holders at any time after 
September 5, 1996 at a conversion price of $29.205 per share subject to 
adjustments as defined in the Note agreement.  The Notes are redeemable 
by the Company at 102.4% of the principal amount, plus accrued interest, 
for the twelve-month period beginning June 1, 1999, and at 101.2% of the 
principal amount, plus accrued interest, for the twelve-month period 
beginning June 1, 2000.  The Notes are subordinated to all present and 
future senior indebtedness of the Company as defined in the Note 
agreement.  In addition, the Company incurred approximately $15 million 
of costs associated with the issuance of the Notes.  These costs are 
accounted for as a deduction from the face amount of the Notes and are 
being amortized over the life of the Notes.  In October 1996, the Company 
registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission $569 million of 
the aggregate principal amount of the Notes, including the related common 
shares issuable upon conversion of these Notes.

During 1994, the Company issued $300 million aggregate principal 
amount of 6.5% unsecured notes in a public offering registered with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission.  The notes were sold at 99.925% of 
par, for an effective yield to maturity of 6.51%.  The notes pay interest 
semi-annually and mature on February 15, 2004.   

The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of the Company's long-
term debt are as follows:
		
								(In millions)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>	
				1996				1995
			Carrying	Fair		Carrying	Fair
			Amount		Value		Amount		Value
<S>			 <C>		 <C>		 <C>		 <C>		
Ten-year unsecured
notes			$300 		$259 		$300		$289    
Convertible
subordinated notes (1)	$661 		$656		$ --		$ --
Other			$  3      	$  3      	$  3		$  3        
</TABLE>			
(1)  The carrying amount of the convertible subordinated note is prior to 
consideration of the related issuance costs.

The fair value of the ten-year unsecured notes is based on their listed 
market value as of September 27, 1996.  The fair value of the convertible 
subordinated notes is based on estimates from several financial 
institutions.   



Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net

Interest and other income (expense), net, consists of the following:
								(In millions)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
							1996	1995	1994
<S>			 				 <C>	 <C>     <C>			
Interest income						$ 60	$100	$ 43
Interest expense					 (60)	 (48)	 (40)
Foreign currency gain (loss)				  30	 (15)	   9
Net premiums and discounts earned (paid) on foreign
exchange instruments					 (13)	 (46)	 (34)
Realized gains on the sale of available-for-sale and
other securities				 	  74	   1	  --
Other income (expense), net				  (3)	  (2)	  --
 							$ 88	$(10)	$(22)
</TABLE>


				37
<PAGE>


Concentrations of Risk

Concentrations of Credit Risk

The Company distributes its products principally through third-party 
computer resellers and various education and consumer channels.  
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited 
because of flooring arrangements for selected customers with third-party 
financing companies and because the Company's customer base consists of 
large numbers of geographically diverse customers dispersed across 
several industries.  As such, the Company generally does not require 
collateral from its customers.  

The counterparties to the agreements relating to the Company's 
investments and foreign exchange and interest rate instruments consist of a 
number of major international financial institutions.  To date, no such 
counterparty has failed to meet its financial obligations to the Company.  
The Company does not believe that there is significant risk of 
nonperformance by these counterparties because the Company continually 
monitors its positions and the credit ratings of such counterparties, and 
limits the financial exposure and the number of agreements and contracts it 
enters into with any one party.  The Company generally does not require 
collateral from counterparties, except for margin agreements associated 
with the ten-year interest rate swaps on the Company's ten-year unsecured 
notes.  To mitigate the credit risk associated with these ten-year swap 
transactions, the Company entered into margining agreements with its 
third-party bank counterparties.  Margining under these agreements does 
not start until 1997.  Furthermore, these agreements would require the 
Company or the counterparty to post margin only if certain credit risk 
thresholds were exceeded.

Concentrations in the Available Sources of Supply of Materials and Product

Although certain components essential to the Company's business are 
generally available from multiple sources, other key components 
(including microprocessors and application-specific integrated circuits, or 
"ASICs") are currently obtained by the Company from single sources.  If 
the supply of a key single-sourced component to the Company were to be 
delayed or curtailed, the Company's ability to ship the related product 
utilizing such component in desired quantities and in a timely manner 
could be adversely affected, depending on the time required to obtain 
sufficient quantities from the original source, or to identify and obtain 
sufficient quantities from an alternate source.  In addition, the Company 
uses some components that are not common to the rest of the personal 
computer industry.  Continued availability of these components may be 
affected if producers were to decide to concentrate on the production of 
common components instead of components customized to meet the 
Company's requirements.  Finally, a significant portion of the Company's 
CPUs and logic boards are now manufactured by SCI Systems, Inc. 
("SCI").  Although the Company works closely with SCI on manufacturing 
schedules and levels, the Company's operating results could be adversely 
affected if SCI were unable to meet its production obligations.

Significant Customers

No customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company's net sales in 
1996, 1995, or 1994.
 
Advertising Costs

Advertising expense was $183 million, $205 million, and $158 million for 
1996, 1995, and 1994, respectively.



  				38
<PAGE>


Restructuring of Operations

In the second quarter of 1996, the Company announced and began to 
implement a restructuring plan aimed at reducing costs and restoring 
profitability to the Company's operations.  The restructuring plan was 
necessitated by decreased demand for Company products and the 
Company's adoption of a new strategic direction.  The Company's 
restructuring actions consist primarily of terminating approximately 1,500 
full-time employees (down from an initial planned termination of 
approximately 2,800), approximately 900 of whom have been terminated 
through September 27, 1996, excluding employees who were hired by SCI 
Systems, Inc. and MCI Systemhouse, the purchasers of the Company's 
Fountain, Colorado, manufacturing facility and the Napa, California, data 
center facility, respectively);canceling or vacating certain facility leases as
a result of these employee terminations; writing down certain land, 
buildings and equipment to be sold as a result of downsizing operations 
and outsourcing various operational functions; and canceling contracts as a 
result of terminating eWorld, Apple's on-line service.  These actions 
resulted in an initial charge of $207 million.  The charge was adjusted 
downward by $28 million in the fourth quarter of 1996, primarily as a 
result of greater than expected voluntary terminations, which led to fewer 
than planned involuntary terminations, as well as lower than expected 
costs to cancel or vacate certain facility leases, partially offset by greater
than expected costs to cancel certain contracts and to write down certain
operating assets sold or to be sold.  The restructuring actions have resulted
in cash expenditures of $55 million and noncash asset write-downs of $7 
million through September 27, 1996.  The Company expects that the 
remaining $117 million accrued balance at September 27, 1996, will result 
in cash expenditures of approximately $60 million over the next twelve 
months and approximately $10 million thereafter.  The Company expects 
that most of the contemplated restructuring actions will be completed 
within the next six months and will be financed through current working 
capital and continued short-term borrowings.  

The following table depicts the restructuring activity through September 
27, 1996:	

(In millions)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
			Total			   Adjustments:	  Balance at
			Restructuring		   Increase/	  September 27,
Category		Charge		Spending   (Decrease)	  1996
<S>			  <C>		  <C>	     <C>	   <C>				
Payments to employees
involuntarily
terminated (C)		$115		$(48)	   $(34)	  $ 33
Payments on canceled
or vacated facility
leases (C)		  26		  (4)	     (7)	    15
Write-down of operating
assets to be sold (N)	  48	  	  (7)	      6		    47
Payments on canceled
contracts (C)      	  18		  (3)	      7		    22
			$207		$(62)	   $(28)	  $117
</TABLE>
(C): Cash; (N): Noncash.	

In the third quarter of 1993, the Company initiated a plan to restructure its
operations worldwide in order to address the competitive conditions in the 
personal computer industry.  In connection with this plan, the Company 
recorded a $321 million charge to operating expenses.  In 1995 and 1994, 
the Company lowered its estimate of the total costs associated with this 
restructuring and recorded an adjustment that increased income by $23 
million and $127 million, respectively.  These adjustments primarily 
reflected the modification or cancelation of certain elements of the 
Company's original restructuring plan because of changing business and 
economic conditions that made certain elements of the restructuring plan 
financially less attractive than originally anticipated.  In addition, some 
actions were completed at a lower cost than originally estimated.

				39
<PAGE>



Income Taxes			
			
The provision (benefit) for income taxes consists of
the following:						(In millions)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>			
			
				 1996		 1995		 1994
<S>			  	   <C>		  <C>	          <C>
Federal:			
Current				$(125)   	$  26		$  61
Deferred			 (279)		  113		   20
				 (404)		  139		   81
State:			
Current				   (2)		    1		    6
Deferred			  (71)		   15		   20
				  (73)		   16		   26
Foreign:			
Current				   (1)		   89		   71
Deferred			   (1)		    6		   12
				   (2)		   95		   83
			
Provision (benefit) for
income taxes			$(479)     	$ 250   	$ 190
</TABLE>
			
The foreign provision (benefit) for income taxes is based on foreign pretax 
earnings (loss) of approximately $(141) million, $572 million, and $474 
million in 1996, 1995, and 1994, respectively.  A substantial portion of the 
Company's cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments is held by 
foreign subsidiaries and is generally based in U.S. dollar-denominated 
holdings.  Amounts held by foreign subsidiaries would be subject to U.S. 
income taxation on repatriation to the United States.  The Company's 
financial statements fully provide for any related tax liability on amounts 
that may be repatriated, aside from undistributed earnings of certain of the 
Company's foreign subsidiaries that are intended to be indefinitely 
reinvested in operations outside the United States.  U.S. income taxes have 
not been provided on a cumulative total of $395 million of such earnings.  
It is not practicable to determine the income tax liability that might be 
incurred if these earnings were to be distributed.  Except for such 
indefinitely reinvested earnings, the Company provides for federal and 
state income taxes currently on undistributed earnings of foreign 
subsidiaries. 


				40
<PAGE>

Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect the future income tax effects of
temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of 
existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and are 
measured using enacted tax rates that apply to taxable income in the years 
in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or 
settled.   

At September 27, 1996, and September 29, 1995, the significant 
components of the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities were:
							     (In millions)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
				September 27, 1996	September 29, 1995
<S>			  		 <C>		    	  <C>		
Deferred tax assets:		
   Accounts receivable and
   inventory reserves			$105   			$  87
   Accrued liabilities and other
   reserves				 139			   85
   Basis of capital assets and 
   investments				  82			   82
   Tax losses and credits 		 175			   --
   Total deferred tax assets		 501			  254
Less: Valuation allowance		  14			   14
Net deferred tax assets			 487			  240
		
Deferred tax liabilities:		
   Unremitted earnings of
   subsidiaries				 467			  648
   Other				  11			   27
Total deferred tax liabilities		 478			  675
		
Net deferred tax asset (liability)	$  9  			$(435)
</TABLE>
		

At September 27, 1996, the Company had operating loss carryforwards for 
tax purposes of approximately $273 million, which expire principally in 
2011.  Substantially all of the remaining benefits from tax losses and 
credits do not expire.  

The net change in the total valuation allowance was negligible in 1996 and 
an increase of $3 million in 1995.   

A reconciliation of the provision (benefit) for income taxes, with the 
amount computed by applying the statutory federal income tax rate  (35% 
in 1996, 1995, and 1994) to income (loss) before provision (benefit) for 
income taxes, is as follows:
								(In millions)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>                              
							1996	1995	1994
<S>			  		 		   <C>	 <C>	 <C>		
Computed expected tax					$(453) 	$236	$175
State taxes, net of federal benefit			  (48)	  10	  17
Research and development tax credit			   --	  (1)	  (1)
Indefinitely invested earnings of foreign
subsidiaries						   --	 (21)	 (49)
Valuation allowance					   --	   3	   9
Other individually immaterial items			   22	  23	  39
Provision (benefit) for income taxes			$(479)  $250	$190
Effective tax rate					  37%	 37%	 38%
</TABLE>
			

The Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") has proposed federal income tax 
deficiencies for the years 1984 through 1991, and the Company has made 
certain prepayments thereon.  The Company contested the proposed 
deficiencies for the years 1984 through 1988, and most of the issues in 
dispute for these years have been resolved.  On June 29, 1995, the IRS 
issued a notice of deficiency proposing increases to the amount of the 
Company's federal income taxes for the years 1989 through 1991.  The 
Company has filed a petition with the United States Tax Court to contest 
these alleged tax deficiencies.  Management believes that adequate 
provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from these 
tax examinations. 
				41
<PAGE>


Common Stock

Shareholder Rights Plan

In May 1989, the Company adopted a shareholder rights plan and 
distributed a dividend of one right to purchase one share of common stock 
(a "Right") for each outstanding share of common stock of the Company.  
The Rights become exercisable in certain limited circumstances involving 
a potential business combination transaction of the Company and are 
initially exercisable at a price of $200 per share.  Following certain other 
events after the Rights have become exercisable, each Right entitles its 
holder to purchase for $200 an amount of common stock of the Company, 
or, in certain circumstances, securities of the acquiror, having a then-
current market value of two times the exercise price of the Right. The 
Rights are redeemable and may be amended at the Company's option 
before they become exercisable.  Until a Right is exercised, the holder of a 
Right, as such, has no rights as a shareholder of the Company.  The Rights 
expire on April 19, 1999.

Stock Option Plans

The Company has in effect a 1990 Stock Option Plan (the "1990 Plan").  
The 1981 Stock Option Plan terminated in October 1990 and the 1987 
Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan (the "1987 Plan") terminated in 
July 1995.  Options granted before those plan termination dates remain 
outstanding in accordance with their terms.  Options may be granted under 
the 1990 Plan to employees, including officers and directors who are 
employees, at not less than the fair market value on the date of grant.  
These options generally become exercisable over a period of three years, 
based on continued employment, and generally expire ten years after the 
grant date.  The 1990 Plan permits the granting of incentive stock options, 
nonstatutory stock options, and stock appreciation rights.

In December 1996, the Board of Directors adopted an amendment to the 
1990 Plan to increase the number of shares reserved for issuance by 1 
million, subject to shareholder approval at the Company's Annual Meeting 
of Shareholders scheduled for February 1997.  In July 1995, the Board of 
Directors adopted an amendment to the 1990 Plan to increase the number 
of shares reserved for issuance by 8.6 million.  In December 1995, the 
Board of Directors adopted a new amendment to reduce this increase to 4.2 
million shares.  This new amendment was approved by the Company's 
shareholders in January 1996.  Also in July 1995, the Board of Directors 
resolved to terminate the 1987 Plan and transfer all unused shares 
remaining under the 1987 Plan to the 1990 Plan.  This resolution was 
approved by the Company's shareholders in January 1996.

In March 1996, the Board of Directors approved the issuance of options to 
purchase 1 million shares of common stock to the Chief Executive Officer 
of the Company, subject to shareholder approval at the Company's Annual 
Meeting of Shareholders scheduled for February 1997.  These options will 
have an exercise price of $26.25 per share and will become exercisable 
over five years.  As the issuance of these options is pending shareholder 
approval, they are not included as outstanding in the table below. 

On May 14, 1996, the Board of Directors adopted a resolution allowing 
employees up to and including the level of Vice President to exchange 
1.25 options at their existing option price for 1.0 new options having an 
exercise price of $26.375 per share, the fair market value of the Company's 
common stock at May 29, 1996.  Options received under this program are 
subject to one year of additional vesting such that the new vesting date for 
each vesting portion will be the later of May 29, 1997, and the original 
vesting date plus one year.  Approximately 2.9 million options were 
exchanged under this program.



				42
<PAGE>

Summarized information regarding the Company's stock option plans as of 
September 27, 1996, is as follows:

				     (In thousands, except per share amounts)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
					Number of Shares	Price per Share
<S>			  		 	   <C>		    	   <C>		
Outstanding at September 29, 1995	 	13,877		$ 7.50- $68.00
   Granted					 8,873 		
   Exercised					  (450)		$ 7.50- $37.00
   Expired or canceled				(8,188)		
Outstanding at September 27, 1996		14,112 		$14.83- $68.00
Exercisable					 4,284		
Reserved for issuance				20,598		
Available for future grant			 6,486		
</TABLE>			

Restricted Stock Plan

On April 1, 1993, the Company's Board of Directors approved a Restricted 
Stock Plan for officers of the Company (the "RSP"), which became 
effective July 1, 1993.  The RSP was subsequently ratified by the 
shareholders on January 26, 1994.  The RSP is designed to provide an 
incentive for officers to continue to own shares of the Company's common 
stock acquired upon exercise of options under any of the Company's stock 
option plans, thus more closely aligning officers' financial interests with 
those of the shareholders.  The RSP provides that officers who exercise 
stock options and continue to hold the exercised shares for at least three 
years will receive up to three awards of shares of restricted stock.  Each 
such award is for one-third the number of shares held for the requisite 
retention period.  Each restricted stock award granted pursuant to the plan 
becomes fully vested three years after the grant date, provided that the 
officer maintains continuous employment with the Company and that other 
vesting requirements are met.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

The Company has an employee stock purchase plan (the "Purchase Plan") 
under which substantially all employees may purchase common stock 
through payroll deductions at a price equal to 85% of the lower of the fair 
market values as of the beginning and end of the offering period.  Stock 
purchases under the Purchase Plan are limited to 10% of an employee's 
compensation, up to a maximum of $25,000 in any calendar year.  As of 
September 27, 1996, approximately 400,000 shares were reserved for 
future issuance under the Purchase Plan.  In December 1996, the Board of 
Directors adopted an amendment to the Purchase Plan to increase the 
number of shares reserved for issuance by 3.5 million, subject to 
shareholder approval at the Company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders 
scheduled for February 1997.  In July 1995, the Board of Directors 
adopted an amendment to the Purchase Plan to increase the number of 
shares reserved for issuance by 3 million.  In December 1995, the Board of 
Directors adopted a new amendment to reduce this increase to 1.5 million 
shares.  This new amendment was approved by the Company's 
shareholders in January 1996.

Chief Executive Officer Performance Shares

In February of 1996, the Board of Directors approved the issuance of up to 
1 million shares of common stock (the "Performance Shares") to the Chief 
Executive Officer of the Company, subject to shareholder approval at the 
Company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders scheduled for February 1997.  
The Company may issue up to 200,000 Performance Shares for each full 
fiscal year during the five-year term of the Chief Executive Officer's 
employment agreement, which began on February 2, 1996. For each partial 
fiscal year during the term of this agreement, the number of shares that 
may be issued shall be prorated to reflect that partial year.  The issuance of
the Performance Shares is subject to the achievement of certain 
performance goals established by the Board of Directors at the beginning 
of the employment agreement and at the beginning of each subsequent 
fiscal year during the term of the employment agreement.  As these 
Performance Shares are pending shareholder approval, they are not 
included as outstanding on the accompanying balance sheet.  However, the 
related estimated compensation expense is included in the 1996 results of 
operations and is immaterial.  The Performance Shares for years after 1996 
will become part of the Senior Officers Restricted Performance Share Plan 
(refer to discussion below) upon approval of the Senior Officers Restricted 
Performance Share Plan by the Company's shareholders at the Annual 
Meeting of Shareholders scheduled for February 1997.

				43
<PAGE>

Senior Officers Restricted Performance Share Plan

In December 1996, the Company's Board of Directors approved a Senior 
Officers Restricted Performance Share Plan (the "Performance Share 
Plan") for which officers of the Company at the level of Senior Vice 
President and above, and other key employees as recommended by 
management and designated by the Compensation Committee of the 
Board, will be eligible.  The Performance Share Plan provides for a grant 
of shares to each eligible participant, with annual vesting conditioned on 
the achievement of performance goals established in advance by the 
Compensation Committee and subject to such other terms as may be 
determined by the Committee.  The Performance Share Plan is intended to 
provide an incentive for superior performance, to promote the maintenance 
of substantial stock ownership levels by officers of the Corporation, and to 
enable the Corporation to attract and retain highly qualified executive 
officers.  The Company's Board of Directors has reserved 2 million shares 
for issuance under the provisions of the Performance Share Plan.  The 
Performance Share Plan is subject to shareholder approval at the Annual 
Meeting of Shareholders scheduled for February 1997.

Stock Repurchase Programs

In November 1992, the Board of Directors authorized the purchase of up to 
10 million shares of the Company's common stock in the open market.    
Approximately 6.6 million shares remain authorized for repurchase.  No 
shares were repurchased under this authorization in 1996, 1995, or 1994.

Employee Savings Plan

The Company has an employee savings plan (the "Savings Plan") that 
qualifies as a deferred salary arrangement under Section 401(k) of the 
Internal Revenue Code.  Under the Savings Plan, participating U.S. 
employees may defer a portion of their pretax earnings, up to the Internal 
Revenue Service annual contribution limit ($9,500 for calendar year 1996).  
Effective October 1, 1995, the Company matches 50% to 100% of each 
employee's contributions, depending on length of service, up to a 
maximum 6% of the employee's earnings.  Prior to October 1, 1995, the 
Company matched 30% to 70% of each employee's contributions, 
depending on length of service, up to a maximum 6% of the employee's 
earnings.  The Company's matching contributions to the Savings Plan were 
approximately $22 million, $15 million, and $11 million in 1996, 1995, 
and 1994,  respectively. 

Commitments and Contingencies

Lease Commitments

The Company leases various facilities and equipment under noncancelable 
operating lease arrangements.  The major facilities leases are for terms of 
five to ten years and generally provide renewal options for terms of up to 
five additional years.  Rent expense under all operating leases was 
approximately $129 million, $127 million, and $122 million  in 1996, 
1995, and 1994, respectively.  Future minimum lease payments under 
these noncancelable operating leases having remaining terms in excess of 
one year as of September 27, 1996, are as follows:

			(In millions)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
<S>				 <C>
1997				$ 47    
1998				  44
1999				  32
2000				  24
2001				  16
Later years			  25
Total minimum lease payments	$188  
</TABLE>
Purchase Commitment

In connection with the sale of its Fountain, Colorado, manufacturing 
facility to SCI Systems, Inc. ("SCI"), the Company is obligated to purchase 
certain percentages of its total annual volumes of CPUs and logic boards 
from SCI over each of the next three years.   The Company has met these 
obligations through September 27, 1996, and believes it will meet them in 
the future.

				44
<PAGE>

Litigation

Abraham and Evelyn Kostick Trust v. Peter Crisp  et al.
In January 1996, a purported shareholder class action was filed in the 
California Superior Court for Santa Clara County naming the Company 
and its directors as defendants. The complaint sought injunctive relief and 
damages and alleged that acts of mismanagement resulted in a depressed 
price for the Company. In February 1996, the complaint was amended to 
add a former  director as a defendant and to add purported class and 
derivative claims based on theories such as breach of fiduciary duty, 
misrepresentation, and insider trading. In July 1996, the Court sustained 
defendants' demurrer and dismissed the amended complaint on a variety of 
grounds and granted plaintiffs leave to amend the complaint. In October 
1996, the plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint naming the 
Company's directors and certain former directors as defendants and again 
alleging purported class and derivative claims, seeking injunctive relief 
and damages (compensatory and punitive) based on theories such as 
breach of fiduciary duty, misrepresentation, and insider trading. In 
November 1996, the Company filed a demurrer seeking dismissal of the 
second amended complaint.

Derek Pritchard v. Michael Spindler et al.
In March 1996, a purported shareholder class action was filed in the 
California Superior Court for Santa Clara County naming certain current 
and former directors of the Company as defendants. The complaint sought 
damages and alleged that the defendants breached their fiduciary duty by 
allegedly rejecting an offer from a computer company (not named in the 
complaint) to acquire the Company at a price in excess of $50 per share. In
August 1996, the Court sustained defendants' demurrer and dismissed the 
complaint on a variety of grounds, and granted plaintiff leave to amend the 
complaint. In October 1996, the plaintiff filed his first amended complaint 
in which he asserted the same purported cause of action as the original 
complaint, alleged additional facts purportedly in support thereof, and 
added the Company as a defendant. The Company intends to file a 
demurrer seeking dismissal of the first amended complaint. 

LS Men's Clothing Defined Benefit Pension Fund v. Michael Spindler et al.
In May 1996, an action was filed in the California Superior Court for 
Alameda County naming as defendants the Company and certain of its 
current and former officers and directors. The complaint seeks 
compensatory and punitive damages and generally alleges that the 
defendants misrepresented or omitted material facts about the Company's 
operations and financial results, which plaintiff contends artificially 
inflated the price of the Company's stock. The case has been transferred to 
the California Superior Court for Santa Clara County. None of the 
defendants has yet responded to the complaint.  

"Repetitive Stress Injury" Litigation
The Company is named in numerous lawsuits (fewer than 100) alleging 
that the plaintiff incurred so-called "repetitive stress injury" to the upper
extremities as a result of using keyboards and/or mouse input devices sold 
by the Company. On October 4, 1996, in a trial of one of these cases 
(Dorsey v. Apple) in the United States District Court for the Eastern 
District of New York, the jury rendered a verdict in favor of the Company, 
and final judgement in favor of the Company has been entered. The other 
cases are in various stages of pretrial activity. These suits are similar to 
those filed against other major suppliers of personal computers. Ultimate 
resolution of the litigation against the Company may depend on progress in 
resolving this type of litigation in the industry overall. 
				45
<PAGE>

Monitor-Size Litigation
In August 1995, the Company was named, along with 41 other entities, 
including computer manufacturers and computer monitor vendors, in a 
putative nationwide class action filed in the California Superior Court for 
Orange County, styled Keith Long et al. v. AAmazing Technologies Corp. 
et al.  The complaint alleges that each of the defendants engaged in false or 
misleading advertising with respect to the size of computer monitor 
screens. Also in August 1995, the Company was named as the sole 
defendant in a purported class action alleging similar claims filed in the 
New Jersey Superior Court for Camden County, entitled Mahendri Shah v. 
Apple Computer, Inc. Subsequently, in November 1995, the Company, 
along with 26 other entities, was named in a purported class action alleging 
similar claims filed in the New Jersey Superior Court for Essex County, 
entitled Maizes & Maizes v. Apple Computer, Inc. et al. Similar putative 
class actions have been filed in other California counties in which the 
Company was not named as a defendant. The complaints in all of these 
cases seek restitution in the form of refunds or product exchange, damages, 
punitive damages, and attorneys fees. In December 1995, the California 
Judicial Council ordered all of the California actions, including Long, 
coordinated for purposes of pretrial proceedings and trial before a single
judge, the Honorable William Cahill, sitting in the County of San 
Francisco. All of the California actions were subsequently coordinated 
under the name In re Computer Monitor Litigation and a master 
consolidated complaint filed superseding all of the individual complaints 
in those actions. On July 3, 1996, Judge Cahill ordered all of the California
cases dismissed without leave to amend as to plaintiffs residing in 
California on the ground that a stipulated judgment entered in September 
1995 in a prior action brought by the California Attorney General alleging
the same cause of action was res judicata as to the plaintiffs in the 
consolidated California class action suits. This order may be subject to 
appellate review at a later stage of the proceedings. Both the New Jersey
cases and the consolidated California cases are at a preliminary stage, with
no discovery having taken place.  

The Company has various claims, lawsuits, disputes with third parties, 
investigations, and pending actions involving allegations of false or 
misleading advertising, product defects, discrimination, infringement of 
intellectual property rights, and breach of contract and other matters 
against the Company and its subsidiaries incident to the operation of its
business. The liability, if any, associated with these matters is not 
determinable.

The Company believes the resolution of the foregoing actions will not 
have a material adverse effect on its financial condition. However, 
depending on the amount and timing of any unfavorable resolution of these
lawsuits, it is possible that the Company's results of operations could be 
materially affected in a particular period.

				46
<PAGE>



Industry Segment and Geographic Information 

The Company operates in one principal industry segment: the design, 
manufacture, and sale of personal computing products. The Company's 
products are sold primarily to the business, education, home, and 
government markets.

Geographic financial information is as follows:
								(In millions)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
							  1996	  1995	 1994
<S>							    <C>	    <C>	   <C>		
Net sales to unaffiliated customers:			
Americas 						$ 5,256 $ 6,356	$5,440
EMEA							  2,222	  2,365	 2,096
Japan							  1,792	  1,822	 1,234
Asia Pacific						    563	    519	   419
   Total net sales					$ 9,833 $11,062	$9,189
			
Transfers between geographic areas (eliminated in
consolidation):			
Americas 						$   517 $   511	$  409  
EMEA							    121	    178	   234
Japan							     --	     --	    --
Asia Pacific 						  3,035	  3,619	 2,618
   Total transfers					$ 3,673 $ 4,308	$3,261
			
Operating income (loss):			
Americas 						$(1,198)$  (26)	$ (27)
EMEA							   (186)   245	   27
Japan							     (4)    47	   47
Asia Pacific						      3	   388	  245
Eliminations						      2	    30	  (19)
Corporate income (expense), net 			     88	   (10)	  (22)
   Income (loss) before income taxes			$(1,295)$ 674	$ 500 
			
Identifiable assets:			
Americas 						$ 2,106 $ 3,112	$2,393
EMEA							    648	    927	   824
Japan							    559	    686	   522
Asia Pacific						    312	    581	   364
Eliminations						    (26)    (34)   (67)
Corporate assets				 	  1,765	    959	 1,267
   Total assets						$ 5,364	$ 6,231	$5,303
</TABLE>			

"Americas" comprises North and South America. "EMEA" is an 
abbreviation for Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. "Asia Pacific" does 
not include Japan.  Prior year amounts have been restated to conform to 
the current year's presentation. "Net sales to unaffiliated customers" is 
based on the location of the customers. Transfers between geographic 
areas are recorded at amounts generally above cost and in accordance with 
the rules and regulations of the respective governing tax authorities. 
Operating income (loss) by geographic area consists of total net sales less 
operating expenses, and does not include an allocation of general corporate 
expenses. The restructuring charges recorded in 1996, and the adjustments 
recorded in 1995 and 1994 to the restructuring charges recorded in 1993, 
are included in the calculation of operating income (loss) for each 
geographic area. Identifiable assets of geographic areas are those assets 
used in the Company's operations in each area. Corporate assets include 
cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, equity securities, and 
joint venture investments.  


				47
<PAGE>



A large portion of the Company's revenue is derived from its international 
operations, and a majority of the products sold internationally are 
manufactured in the Company's facilities in Cork, Ireland; and Singapore. 
As a result, the Company is subject to risks associated with foreign 
operations, such as obtaining governmental permits and approvals, 
currency exchange fluctuations, currency restrictions, political instability,
labor problems, trade restrictions, and changes in tariff and freight charges.


































				48
<PAGE>


Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)

(Tabular amounts in millions, except per share amounts)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>			
		Fourth		Third		Second		First
		Quarter		Quarter		Quarter		Quarter
				
1996				
<S>		   <C>		   <C>		   <C>		   <C>			
Net sales	$2,321		$2,179		$2,185		$3,148              
Gross margin	$  511		$  403		$ (421)		$  475                 
Net income(loss)$   25  	$  (32) 	$ (740)		$  (69)             
Earnings (loss)
per common and
common equivalent
share		$ 0.20		$(0.26)		$(5.99)		$(0.56)                
Cash dividends
declared per
common share	$  ---		$  ---		$  ---		$ 0.12
Price range per
common share	$25.00 -$16.00  $28.88 -$19.63  $35.50 -$23.00  $42.50 -$31.44 
				
1995				
				
Net sales	$3,003		$2,575		$2,652		$2,832
Gross margin	$  621		$  728		$  695		$  814
Net income 	$   60		$  103		$   73		$  188
Earnings per
common and
common equivalent
share		$ 0.48		$ 0.84		$ 0.59		$ 1.55
Cash dividends
declared per
common share	$ 0.12		$ 0.12		$ 0.12		$ 0.12
Price range per
common share	$49.88-$ 34.69	$50.13-$ 33.63	$48.00 -$ 33.88 $43.75-$ 32.50
</TABLE>				

At September 27, 1996, there were 30,008 shareholders of record.

The Company began declaring quarterly cash dividends on its common 
stock in April 1987. The dividend policy is determined by the Board of 
Directors and is dependent on the Company's earnings, capital 
requirements financial condition and other factors. The Company 
suspended paying dividends on its common stock beginning in the second 
quarter of 1996. The Company anticipates that, for the foreseeable future, 
it will retain any earnings for use in the operation of its business.

The price range per common share represents the highest and lowest prices 
for the Company's common stock on the Nasdaq National Market during 
each quarter.

Net income for the fourth quarter of 1996 includes an adjustment to the 
1996 restructuring charge that increased income by $28 million.  Net loss 
for the second quarter of 1996 includes a $616 million charge for the 
write-down of certain inventory and related actions, as well as a $207 
million restructuring charge.  Net income for the third and first quarters of
1995 includes adjustments to the 1993 restructuring charge that increased 
income by $6 million and $17 million, respectively.

				49
<PAGE>


Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on 
Accounting and Financial Disclosure

Not applicable.





				50
<PAGE>

PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Information regarding directors of the Registrant is set forth in the Proxy 
Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - 
Directors" and under the heading "Election of Directors", which 
information is hereby incorporated by reference. Information regarding 
executive officers of the Company found under the caption "Executive 
Officers of the Registrant" in Part I hereof is also incorporated by 
reference into this Item 10. 

Item 11. Executive Compensation

Information regarding executive compensation is set forth in the Proxy 
Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - 
Change in Control Arrangements", "Information About Apple Computer, 
Inc. - Director Compensation", "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - 
Arrangements with Executive Officers", "Report of the Compensation 
Committee of the Board of Directors on Executive Compensation", and 
"Information Regarding Executive Compensation", which information is 
hereby incorporated by reference.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and 
Management

Information regarding security ownership of certain beneficial owners and 
management is set forth in the Proxy Statement under the heading 
"Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Security Ownership of Certain 
Beneficial Owners  and Management", which information is hereby 
incorporated by reference.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Information regarding  certain relationships and related transactions is set
forth in the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple 
Computer, Inc. - Director Compensation ", "Information About Apple 
Computer, Inc. - Arrangements with Executive Officers", and "Report of 
the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors on Executive 
Compensation - Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider 
Participation", which information is hereby incorporated by reference.































				51
<PAGE>

PART IV 

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on 
Form 8-K

(a) 	Items Filed as Part of Report:

1. Financial Statements
   The financial statements of the Company as set forth in the Index 
   to Consolidated Financial Statements under Part II, Item 8 of this Form 
   10-K are hereby incorporated by reference.

2. Financial Statement Schedule
   The financial statement schedule of the Company as set forth in 
   the Index to Consolidated Financial Statements under Part II, Item 8 of 
   this Form 10-K is hereby incorporated by reference.

3. Exhibits

   The exhibits listed under Item 14(c) are filed as part of this Form 10-K.

(b)	Reports on Form 8-K

No Current Reports on Form 8-K were filed by Apple with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission during the fourth quarter of fiscal 
1996.

(c) Exhibits 

Exhibit
Number	Notes*	Description

3.1	88-S3	Restated Articles of 	
		Incorporation, filed with the 
		Secretary of State of the State of 
		California on January 27, 1988.

3.2	90/2Q	Amendment to Restated Articles 
		of Incorporation, filed with the 
		Secretary of State of the State of 
		California on February 5, 1990.

3.3	95/1Q	By-Laws of the Company, as 
		amended through November 2,1994.

4.1	89-8A	Common Shares Rights 	
		Agreement dated as of May 15, 
		1989 between the Company and 
		the First National Bank of 	
		Boston, as Rights Agent.

4.1.1	96-S3/A	Indenture, dated as of June 1, 
		1996, between the Company 
		and Marine Midland Bank, as 
		Trustee, relating to the 6% Convertible
		Subordinated Notes due June 1, 2001.

4.2	94/2Q	Indenture dated as of February 1, 
		1994, between the Company 
		and Morgan Guaranty Trust 
		Company of New York (the "Indenture").

4.2.1	96-S3/A	Form of 6% Convertible Subordinated Notes
		due June 1, 2001 included in Exhibit 4.1.1.

4.3	94/2Q	Supplemental Indenture dated as 
		of February 1, 1994, among the 
		Company, Morgan Guaranty 
		Trust Company of New York, 
		as resigning trustee, and 	
		Citibank, N.A., as successor trustee.

4.3.1	96-S3/A	Specimen Certificate of 	
		Common Stock of Apple 	
		Computer, Inc. (Incorporated by 
		reference to Exhibit 4.5 to the 
		Company's Registration 	
		Statement on Form S-3 (file no. 
		33-62310) filed with the 	
		Securities and Exchange 	
		Commission on May 6, 1993).

4.4	94/2Q	Officers' Certificate, without 
		exhibits, pursuant to Section 
		301 of the Indenture, 	
		establishing the terms of the 
		Company's 6 1/2% Notes due 2004.

*   Footnotes appear on page 56.

				52
<PAGE>

(c) Exhibits  (continued)

Exhibit
Number	Notes*	Description

4.5	  94/2Q		Form of the Company's 6 1/2% 
			Notes due 2004.

4.8	  96-S3/A	Registration Rights Agreement, 
			dated June 7, 1996 among the 
			Company and Goldman, Sachs 
			& Co. and Morgan Stanley & 
			Co. Incorporated.

10.A.1	  93/3Q**	1981 Stock Option Plan, as amended.

10.A.2	  91K**		1987 Executive Long Term 
			Stock Option Plan.

10.A.3	  91K**		Apple Computer, Inc. Savings 
			and Investment Plan, as 	
			amended and restated effective as 
			of October 1, 1990.

10.A.3-1  92K**		Amendment of Apple 	
			Computer, Inc. Savings and 
			Investment Plan dated March 1, 
			1992.

10.A.4	  88K**		Form of Director Warrant.

10.A.5	  **		1990 Stock Option Plan, as 
			amended through September 9, 
			1996.

10.A.6	  **		Apple Computer, Inc. 	
			Employee Stock Purchase Plan, 
			as amended through September 
			9, 1996.

10.A.7	  96/1Q**	1996 Senior / Executive 	
			Incentive Bonus Plan.

10.A.8	  91K**		Form of Indemnification 	
			Agreement between the 	
			Registrant and each officer of 
			the Registrant.

10.A.15-1 93K-10.A.15**	1993 Executive Restricted Stock 
			Plan

10.A.19	  96/1Q**	Executive Severance Plan as 
		  	amended and restated effective as 
		  	of January 15, 1996

10.A.19-1 95/3Q** 	Supplement to the Executive 
		  	Severance Plan effective as of 
		  	June 9, 1995.

10.A.21	  95/3Q**	Form of Senior Executive 	
			Retention Agreement dated June 
			9, 1995.

10.A.23	  96/1Q**	Separation Agreement dated 
			December 1, 1995, between 
			Registrant and Daniel Eilers.

10.A.24	  96/1Q**	Separation Agreement dated 
			October 31, 1995, between 	
			Registrant and Joseph A. 	
			Graziano.

10.A.25	  96/1Q**	Summary of Principal Terms of 
			Employment between Registrant and
			Gilbert F. Amelio.

10.A.26	  96/2Q**	Employment  Agreement dated 
			February 28, 1996, between 
			Registrant and Gilbert F. 	
			Amelio.

10.A.27	  96/2Q**	Employment  Agreement dated 
			February 26, 1996, between 
			Registrant and George M. 	
			Scalise.

*   Footnotes appear on page 56.
** Represents a management contract or compensatory plan or 
arrangement.

				53
<PAGE>


(c) Exhibits  (continued)

Exhibit
Number	Notes*	Description

10.A.28	96/2Q**	Employment  Agreement dated 
		March 4, 1996, between 	
		Registrant and Fred D. 	
		Anderson, Jr.

10.A.29	96/2Q**	Retention Agreement dated 	
		March 4, 1996, between 	
		Registrant and Fred D. 	
		Anderson, Jr.

10.A.30	96/2Q**	Employment  Agreement dated 
		April 2, 1996, between 	
		Registrant and John Floisand.

10.A.31	96/2Q**	Employment  Agreement dated 
		April 3, 1996, between Apple 
		Japan, Inc. and John Floisand.

10.A.32	96/3Q**	Employment  Agreement dated 
		June 13, 1996, between 	
		Registrant and Robert M. 	
		Calderoni.

10.A.33	96/3Q**	Employment  Agreement dated 
		June 25, 1996, between 	
		Registrant and Ellen M. 	
		Hancock.

10.A.34	96/3Q**	Retention Agreement dated June 
		25, 1996, between Registrant 
		and Ellen M. Hancock.

10.A.35	96/3Q**	Retention Agreement dated June 
		27, 1996, between Registrant 
		and George M. Scalise.

10.A.36	96/3Q**	Airplane Use Agreement dated 
		June 27, 1996, among 	
		Registrant, Gilbert F. Amelio 
		and Aero Ventures. 

10.A.37	96/3Q**	Letter Agreement dated May 1, 
		1996, between Registrant and 
		Jeanne Seeley.

10.A.38	96/3Q**	Separation Agreement effective 
		March 28, 1996, between 	
		Registrant and Michael H. 	
		Spindler.

10.A.39	96/3Q**	Letter Agreement effective June 
		3, 1996, between Registrant and 
		James J. Buckley.

10.A.40	**	Employment Agreement 	
		effective June 3, 1996, between 
		Registrant and G. Frederick 	
		Forsyth.

10.B.1 88K-10.1	Master OEM Agreement dated 
		as of January 26, 1988 between 
		the Company and Tokyo 	
		Electric Co. Ltd.

10.B.7	91-8K-7	Know-how and Copyright 	
		License Agreement (Power PC 
		Architecture) dated as of 	
		September 30, 1991 between 
		IBM and the Registrant.

10.B.8	91-8K-8	Participation in the Customer 
		Design Center by the Registrant 
		dated as of September 30, 1991 
		between IBM and the 	
		Registrant. 

10.B.9	91-8K-9	Agreement for Purchase of IBM 
		Products (Original Equipment 
		Manufacturer) dated as of 	
		September 30, 1991 between 
		IBM and the Registrant.

10.B.11	91K	Agreement dated October 9, 
		1991 between Apple Corps 	
		Limited and the Registrant.
*   Footnotes appear on page 56.
** Represents a management contract or compensatory plan or 
arrangement.
				54
<PAGE>

(c) Exhibits  (continued)

Exhibit
Number	Notes*	Description

10.B.12	92K	Microprocessor Requirements 
		Agreement dated January 31, 
		1992 between the Registrant and 
		Motorola, Inc.

10.B.13	96/2Q	Restructuring Agreement dated 
		December 14, 1995, among  
		Registrant, Taligent, Inc. and 
		International Business Machines 
		Corporation.

10.B.14	96/2Q	Stock Purchase Agreement dated 
		April 4, 1996 between 	
		Registrant and SCI Systems, 
		Inc.

10.B.16	96/3Q	Fountain Manufacturing 	
		Agreement dated May 31, 1996 
		between Registrant and SCI 
		Systems, Inc.

11		Computation of earnings (loss) 
		per common share.

21		Subsidiaries of the Company.

23		Consent of Independent 	
		Auditors. 

24		Power of Attorney.

27		Financial Data Schedule.


*   Footnotes appear on page 56.

				55
<PAGE>

NOTES
88K		Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.22 to the Company's
		Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September
		30, 1988(the "1988 Form 10-K").

88-S3 		Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's
		Registration Statement on Form S-3 (file no. 33-23317) filed
		July 27, 1988.

88K-10.1	Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the 1988 Form
		10-K. Confidential treatment as to certain portions of these
		agreements has been granted.

89-8A		Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1 to the Company's
		Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with the Securities
		and Exchange Commission on May 26, 1989.

90/2Q		Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Company's
		Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 30,
		1990.

91K		Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of that number in the
		Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
		September 27, 1991 (the "1991 Form 10-K").

91-8K-7		Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 7 to the October 1991
		Form 8-K.

91-8K-8		Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 8 to the 
		October 1991 Form 8-K.

91-8K-9		Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 9 to the 
		October 1991 Form 8-K.

92K		Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of that number in
		the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
		ended September 25, 1992 (the "1992 Form 10-K").

93K-10.A.15	Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.A.15 to 
		the 1993 Form 10-K.

93/3Q 		Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.A.1 to the Company's
		Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 25,
		1993.

94/2Q		Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of that number in
		the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
		ended April 1, 1994.

95/1Q		Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of that 
		number in the Company's Quarterly Report on 
		Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 30, 1994.

95/3Q		Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of that 
		number in the Company's Quarterly Report on 
		Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1995.

96/1Q		Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of that 
		number in the Company's Quarterly Report on 
		Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 29, 1995.

96/2Q		Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of that 
		number in the Company's Quarterly Report on 
		Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 29, 1996.

96/3Q		Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of that 
		number in the Company's Quarterly Report on 
		Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 28, 1996.

96-S3/A-4.1.1,
- -4.2.1, -4.3.1,
- -4.8		Incorporated by reference to exhibits 4.1, 4.2, 4.3,
		and 4.8, respectively, in the Company's Registration 
		Statement on Form S-3/A (file no. 333-10961) 
		filed October 30, 1996.

(d)	Financial Statement Schedule
	 See Item 14(a)(2) of this Form 10-K.
				56
<PAGE>




(Exhibit 23)



CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS



We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration 
Statements (Form S-8 Nos. 2-70449, 2-77563, 2-85095, 33-00866, 33-
23650, 33-31075, 33-40877, 33-47596, 33-57092 33-57080, 33-53873, 
33-53879, 33-53895, 33-60279,33-60281, and 333-07437) pertaining to 
the 1981 and 1990 Stock Option Plans, the Employee Stock Purchase 
Plan, the 1980 Key Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the 1986 Employee 
Incentive Stock Option Plan, the 1987 Executive Long Term Stock 
Option Plan, the 1993 Executive Restricted Stock Plan, and the Form of 
Director Warrant of Apple Computer, Inc. and Form S-3 No. 33-62310 and 
Form S-3/A No. 333-10961 in the related Prospectuses of our report dated 
October 14, 1996 with respect to the consolidated financial statements and 
schedule of Apple Computer, Inc. included in this Annual Report (Form 
10-K) for the year ended September 27, 1996.








/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Ernst & Young LLP

San Jose, California
December 18, 1996


		
























				57

<PAGE>

				SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be 
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

			   APPLE COMPUTER, INC.
			       (Registrant)

			By:  /s/Gilbert F. Amelio 

			    GILBERT F. AMELIO
		   Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
			    December 18, 1996           

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose 
signature appears below constitutes and appoints Gilbert F. Amelio and 
George M. Scalise, jointly and severally, his or her attorneys-in-fact, each
with the power of substitution, for him or her in any and all capacities, to
sign any amendments to this Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, 
with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, with 
the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming 
all that each of said attorneys-in-fact, or his substitute or substitutes, may
do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this 
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the 
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:
	
	
/s/ Gilbert F. Amelio		/s/ Fred D. Anderson
GILBERT F. AMELIO		FRED D. ANDERSON
Chairman and 			Executive Vice President, and
Chief Executive Officer		Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Executive Officer), 	(Principal Financial Officer)
and Director			December 18, 1996
December 18, 1996	
	
/s/ A. C. Markkula, Jr.		/s/ Delano E. Lewis
A. C. MARKKULA, JR.		DELANO E. LEWIS
Director			Director
December 18, 1996		December 18, 1996
	
	
/s/ Bernard Goldstein		/s/ Edgar S. Woolard, Jr.
BERNARD GOLDSTEIN		EDGAR S. WOOLARD, JR.
Director			Director
December 18, 1996		December 18, 1996
	
/s/ B. Jurgen Hintz		/s/ Gareth C. C. Chang
B. JURGEN HINTZ			GARETH C. C. CHANG
Director			Director
December 18, 1996		December 18, 1996
	
/s/ Katherine M.Hudson
KATHERINE M. HUDSON	
Director	
December 18, 1996	
	
	
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be 
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


		
			58
<PAGE>







							SCHEDULE II

				APPLE COMPUTER, INC.

		VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES

				  (In millions)


				
					Charged to		
Allowance for		Beginning	Costs and		     Ending
Doubtful Accounts:	Balance		Expenses    Deductions (1)   Balance
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>				
<S>			<C>		<C>	    <C>	     	     <C>
Year Ended				
September 27,1996	$87		$28 	    $24 	     $91
				
Year Ended				
September 29,1995	$91		$17 	    $21 	     $87
				
Year Ended				
September 30,1994	$84		$25	    $18	   	     $91
</TABLE>				








(1) Represents amounts written off against the allowance, net of 
recoveries.






















				S-1
<PAGE>




INDEX TO EXHIBITS

Exhibit
Index
Number  Notes	Description	 					Page

3.1	(1)	Restated Articles of Incorporation, filed with the
		Secretary of State of the State of California on
		January 27, 1988.					52

3.2	(1)	Amendment to Restated Articles of
		Incorporation, filed with the Secretary of State of
		the State of California on February 5, 1990.		52

3.2	(1)	By-Laws of the Company, as amended through
		April 20, 1994.						52

4.1	(1)	Common Shares Rights Agreement dated as of
		May 15, 1989 between the Company and the
		First National Bank of Boston, as Rights Agent.		52

4.1.1	(1)	Indenture, dated as of June 1, 1996, between the
		Company and Marine Midland Bank, as Trustee,
		relating to the 6% Convertible Subordinated Notes
		due June 1, 2001.					52

4.2	(1)	Indenture dated as of February 1, 1994, between
		the Company and Morgan Guaranty Trust
		Company of New York (the "Indenture").			52

4.2.1	(1)	Form of the 6% Convertible Subordinated Notes
		due June 1, 2001 included in Exhibit 4.1.1.		52

4.3	(1)	Supplemental Indenture dated as of February 1,
		1994, among the Company, Morgan Guaranty
		Trust Company of New York, as resigning
		trustee, and Citibank, N.A., as successor trustee.	52

4.3.1	(1)	Specimen Certificate of Common Stock of
		Apple Computer, Inc. (Incorporated by reference
		to Exhibit 4.5 to the Company's Registration
		Statement on Form S-3 (file no. 33-62310) filed
		with the Securities and Exchange Commission
		on May 6, 1993.).					52

4.4	(1)	Officers' Certificate, without exhibits, pursuant
		to Section 301 of the Indenture, establishing the
		terms of the Company's 6 1/2% Notes due 2004.		52

4.5	(1)	Form of the Company's 6 1/2% Notes due 2004.		53

4.8	(1)	Registration Rights Agreement, dated June 7,
		1996 among the Company and Goldman, Sachs
		& Co. and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated.		53

10.A.1	(1)	1981 Stock Option Plan, as amended.			53

10.A.2	(1)	1987 Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan.		53

10.A.3	(1)	Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment
		Plan, as amended and restated effective as of
		October 1, 1990.					53

10.A.3.1(1)	Amendment of Apple Computer, Inc. Savings
		and Investment Plan dated March 1, 1992.		53

10.A.4	(1)	Form of Director Warrant.				53

10.A.5		1990 Stock Option Plan, as amended through
		September 9, 1996.					62

10.A.6		Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase
		Plan, as amended through September 9, 1996.		70

(1) Incorporated by reference at page indicated.

				59
<PAGE>

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (Continued)

Exhibit
Index
Number   Notes	Description						Page

10.A.7	 (1)	1996 Senior / Executive Incentive Bonus Plan.		53

10.A.8	 (1)	Form of Indemnification Agreement between the
		Registrant and each officer of the Registrant.		53

10.A.15.1(1)	1993 Executive Restricted Stock Plan.			53

10.A.19	 (1)	Executive Severance Plan as amended and restated
		effective as of January 15, 1996.			53

10.A.19.1(1)	Supplement to the Executive Severance Plan
		effective as of June 9, 1995.				53

10.A.21	 (1)	Form of Senior Executive Retention Agreement
		dated June 9, 1995.					53

10.A.23	 (1)	Separation Agreement dated December 1, 1995,
		between Registrant and Daniel Eilers.			53

10.A.24	 (1)	Separation Agreement dated October 31, 1995,
		between Registrant and Joseph A. Graziano.		53

10.A.25	 (1)	Summary of Principal Terms of Employment 
		between Registrant and Gilbert F. Amelio.		53

10.A.26	 (1)	Employment  Agreement dated February 28,
		1996, between Registrant and Gilbert F. Amelio.		53

10.A.27	 (1)	Employment  Agreement dated February 26,
		1996, between Registrant and George M.
		Scalise.						53

10.A.28	 (1)	Employment  Agreement dated March 4, 1996,
		between Registrant and Fred D. Anderson, Jr.		54

10.A.29	 (1)	Retention Agreement dated March 4, 1996,
		between Registrant and Fred D. Anderson, Jr.		54

10.A.30	 (1)	Employment  Agreement dated April 2, 1996,
		between Registrant and John Floisand.			54

10.A.31	 (1)	Employment  Agreement dated April 3, 1996,
		between Apple Japan, Inc. and John Floisand.		54

10.A.32	 (1)	Employment  Agreement dated June 13, 1996,
		between Registrant and Robert M. Calderoni.		54

10.A.33	 (1)	Employment  Agreement dated June 25, 1996,
		between Registrant and Ellen M. Hancock.		54

10.A.34	 (1)	Retention Agreement dated June 25, 1996,
		between Registrant and Ellen M. Hancock.		54

(1) Incorporated by reference at page indicated.

				60
<PAGE>



INDEX TO EXHIBITS (Continued)
Exhibit
Index
Number  Notes	Description						Page

10.A.35	(1)	Retention Agreement dated June 27, 1996,
		between Registrant and George M. Scalise.		54

10.A.36	(1)	Airplane Use Agreement dated June 27, 1996,
		among Registrant, Gilbert F. Amelio and
		Aero Ventures.						54

10.A.37	(1)	Letter Agreement dated May 1, 1996, between
		Registrant and Jeanne Seeley.				54

10.A.38	(1)	Separation Agreement effective March 28,
		1996, between Registrant and Michael H.
		Spindler.						54

10.A.39	(1)	Letter Agreement effective June 3, 1996,
		between Registrant and James J. Buckley.		54

10.A.40		Employment Agreement effective June 3,
		1996, between Registrant and G. Frederick
		Forsyth.						75

10.B.1	(1)	Master OEM Agreement dated as of January
		26, 1988 between the Company and Tokyo
		Electric Co. Ltd.					54

10.B.7	(1)	Know-how and Copyright License Agreement
		(Power PC Architecture) dated as of September
		30, 1991 between IBM and the Registrant.		54

10.B.8	(1)	Participation in the Customer Design Center
		by the Registrant dated as of September 30,
		1991 between IBM and the Registrant. 			54

10.B.9	(1)	Agreement for Purchase of IBM Products
		(Original Equipment Manufacturer) dated as of
		September 30, 1991 between IBM and the
		Registrant.						54

10.B.11	(1)	Agreement dated October 9, 1991 between
		Apple Corps Limited and the Registrant.			54

10.B.12	(1)	Microprocessor Requirements Agreement dated
		January 31, 1992 between the Registrant and
		Motorola, Inc.						55

10.B.13	(1)	Restructuring Agreement dated December 14,
		1995, among  Registrant, Taligent, Inc. and
		International Business Machines Corporation.		55

10.B.14	(1)	Stock Purchase Agreement dated April 4, 1996
		between Registrant and SCI  Systems, Inc.		55

10.B.16	(1)	Fountain Manufacturing Agreement dated May
		31, 1996 between Registrant and SCI
		Systems, Inc.						55

11		Computation of earnings (loss) per common
		share.							78

21		Subsidiaries of the Company.				79

23		Consent of Independent Auditors. 			57

24		Power of Attorney.					58

27		Financial Data Schedule.				80

(1) Incorporated by reference at page indicated.
				61
<PAGE>



</TEXT>

</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>2
<TEXT>

								
		EXHIBIT 10.A.5
APPLE COMPUTER, INC.
1990 STOCK OPTION PLAN
(as amended through 9/9/96)

1.	Purposes of the Plan.  The purposes of this 1990 Stock 
Option Plan are to attract and retain high quality personnel for positions of 
substantial responsibility, to provide additional incentive to Employees of 
the Company, its Subsidiaries and its Affiliated Companies and to promote 
the success of the Company's business.  This Plan succeeds to and replaces 
the Company's 1981 Stock Option Plan.  Options granted under the Plan 
may be incentive stock options (as defined under Section 422 of the Code) 
or non-statutory stock options, as determined by the Administrator at the 
time of grant of an option and subject to the applicable provisions of 
Section 422 of the Code, and the regulations promulgated thereunder.  
Stock appreciation rights ("SARs") may be granted under the Plan in 
connection with Options or independently of Options.

2.	Definitions.  As used herein, the following definitions 
shall apply:

	(a)	"Administrator" means the Board or any of its 
Committees, as shall be administering the Plan from time to time 
pursuant to Section 4 of the Plan.

	(b)	"Affiliated Company" means a corporation which is not 
a Subsidiary but with respect to which the Company owns, directly or 
indirectly through one or more Subsidiaries, at least 20% of the total 
voting power, unless the Administrator determines in its discretion that 
such corporation is not an Affiliated Company.

	(c)	"Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.

	(d)	"Common Stock" means the Common Stock, no par 
value, of the Company.

	(e)	"Company" means Apple Computer, Inc., a California 
corporation, or its successor.

	(f)	"Committee" means a Committee, if any, appointed by 
the Board in accordance with paragraph (a) of Section 4 of the Plan.

	(g)	"Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as 
amended from time to time, and any successor thereto.

	(h)	"Continuous Status as an Employee" means the absence 
of any interruption or termination of the employment relationship with the 
Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliated Company.  Continuous Status as 
an Employee shall not be considered interrupted in the case of:  (i) medical 
leave, provided that such leave is for a period of not more than four 
months; (ii) military leave; (iii) family leave, provided that such leave is 
for a period of not more than four months; (iv)  any other leave of absence 
approved by the Administrator, provided that such leave is for a period of 
not more than four months, unless reemployment upon the expiration of 
such leave is guaranteed by contract or statute, or unless provided otherwise 
pursuant to formal policy adopted from time to time by the Company and 
issued and promulgated to Employees in writing; or (v) in the case of 
transfers between locations of the Company or between the Company, its 
Subsidiaries,its successor or its Affiliated Companies.

	(i)	"Director" means a member of the Board.

	(j)	"Employee" means any person, including Officers and 
Directors, employed by and on the payroll of the Company, any Subsidiary 
or any Affiliated Company.  The payment of Directors' fees by the 
Company shall not be sufficient to constitute "employment" by the 
Company.

	(k)	"Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934, as amended.

	(l)	"Fair Market Value" means the value of Common Stock 
determined as follows:

		(i)	If the Common Stock is listed on any 
established stock exchange or a national market system (including 
without limitation the National Market System of the National 
Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation 
("NASDAQ") System), its Fair Market Value shall be the closing 
sales price for such stock or the closing bid if no sales were 
reported, as quoted on such system or exchange (or the exchange 
with the greatest volume of trading in Common Stock) for the 
last market trading day prior to the time of determination, as 
reported in the Wall Street Journal or such other source as the 
Administrator deems reliable.

				62
<PAGE>

(ii)	If the Common Stock is regularly quoted on the NASDAQ 
System (but not on the National Market System) or quoted by a 
recognized securities dealer but selling prices are not reported, its 
Fair Market Value shall be the mean between the high and low 
asked prices for the Common Stock for the last day on which 
there are quoted prices prior to the time of determination.

		(iii)	In the absence of an established market for the 
Common Stock, the Fair Market Value thereof shall be 
determined in good faith by the Administrator.

	(m)	"Officer" means an officer of the Company within the 
meaning of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations 
promulgated thereunder.

	(n)	"Nonstatutory Stock Option" means an Option that is 
not an Incentive Stock Option.

	(o)	"Incentive Stock Option" means an Option that satisfies 
the provisions of Section 422 of the Code and is expressly designated by 
the Administrator at the time of grant as an incentive stock option.

	(p)	"Option" means an Option granted pursuant to the Plan.

	(q)	"Optioned Stock" means the Common Stock subject to 
an Option or SAR.

	(r)	"Optionee" means an Employee who receives an Option 
or SAR.

	(s)	"Parent" corporation shall have the meaning defined in 
Section 424(e) of the Code.

	(t)	"Plan" means this 1990 Stock Option Plan.

	(u)	"SAR" means a stock appreciation right granted pursuant 
to Section 9 below.

	(v)	"Share" means a share of the Common Stock, as adjusted 
in accordance with Section 12 of the Plan.

	(w)	"Subsidiary" corporation has the meaning defined in 
Section 424(f) of the Code.

	In addition, the terms "Rule 16b-3" and "Applicable Laws", the 
term "Insiders", the term "Tax Date" and the terms "Change in Control" 
and "Change in Control Price", shall have the meanings set forth, 
respectively, in Sections 4, 9, 10 and 12 below.

	3.	Stock Subject to the Plan.  Subject to the provisions of 
Section 12 of the Plan, the maximum aggregate number of Shares which 
may be optioned and sold under the Plan or for which SARs may be 
granted and exercised is 51,200,000 Shares (including Shares issued under 
the 1981 Stock Option Plan, to which this Plan is a successor).
	The Shares may be authorized but unissued or reacquired Common 
Stock.

	In the discretion of the Administrator, any or all of the Shares 
authorized under the Plan may be subject to SARs issued pursuant to the 
Plan.

	If an Option or SAR issued under this Plan or under the 
Company's 1981 Stock Option Plan should expire or become 
unexercisable for any reason without having been exercised in full, the 
unpurchased Shares which were subject thereto shall, unless this Plan shall 
have been terminated, become available for other Options or SARs under 
this Plan.  However, should the Company reacquire Shares which were 
issued pursuant to the exercise of an Option or SAR, such Shares shall not 
become available for future grant under the Plan.

	4.	Administration of the Plan.

		(a)	Composition of Administrator.

				(1)	Multiple Administrative 
Bodies.  If permitted by Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act 
or any successor rule thereto, as in effect at the time that discretion is 
being exercised with respect to the Plan ("Rule 16b-3"), and by the legal 
requirements relating to the administration of stock plans such as the Plan, 
if any, of applicable securities laws, California corporate law and the Code 
(collectively, "Applicable Laws"), the Plan may (but need not) be 
administered by different administrative bodies with respect to (A) Directors
who are not Employees, (B) Directors who are Employees, (C) Officers 
who are not Directors and (D) Employees who are neither Directors nor 
Officers.
				63
<PAGE>


				(2)	Administration with respect 
to Directors and Officers.  With respect to grants and awards to Employees 
who are also Officers or Directors of the Company, the Plan may be 
administered by (A) the Board, if the Board may administer the Plan in 
compliance with Rule 16b-3 as it applies to grants to Officers and 
Directors, or (B) a Committee designated by the Board to administer the 
Plan, which Committee shall be constituted (I) in such a manner as to 
permit the Plan and grants and awards thereunder to comply with Rule 16b-
3 as it applies to grants to Officers and Directors and (II) in such a manner 
as to satisfy the Applicable Laws.

				(3)	Administration with respect 
to Other Persons.  With respect to grants and awards to Employees who are 
neither Directors nor Officers of the Company, the Plan may be 
administered by (A) the Board or (B) a Committee designated by the Board, 
which Committee shall be constituted in such a manner as to satisfy the 
Applicable Laws.

				(4)	General.  Once a Committee 
has been appointed pursuant to subsection (2) or (3) of this Section 4(a), 
such Committee shall continue to serve in its designated capacity until 
otherwise directed by the Board.  From time to time the Board may increase 
the size of any Committee and appoint additional members thereof, remove 
members (with or without cause) and appoint new members in substitution 
therefor, fill vacancies (however caused) and remove all members of a 
Committee and thereafter directly administer the Plan, all to the extent 
permitted by the Applicable Laws and, in the case of a Committee 
appointed under subsection (2) to the extent permitted by Rule 16b-3 as it 
applies to grants to Officers and Directors.

		(b)	Powers of the Administrator.  Subject to the 
provisions of the Plan and, in the case of a Committee, subject to the 
specific duties delegated by the Board to such Committee, the 
Administrator shall have the authority, in its discretion: (i) to determine 
the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock in accordance with Section 
2(l) of the Plan; (ii) to determine, in accordance with Section 8(a) of the 
Plan, the exercise price per Share of Options and SARs to be granted; (iii) 
to determine the Employees to whom, and the time or times at which, 
Options and SARs shall be granted and the number of Shares to be 
represented by each Option or SAR (including without limitation whether 
or not a corporation shall be excluded from the definition of Affiliated 
Company under Section 2(b)); (iv) to interpret the Plan; (v) to determine 
the terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, of 
any Option or SAR granted hereunder (including, but not limited to, any 
restriction or limitation, or any vesting acceleration or waiver of forfeiture 
restrictions regarding any Option or SAR and/or the Shares relating 
thereto, based in each case on such factors as the Administrator shall 
determine, in its sole discretion); (vi) to approve forms of agreement for 
use under the Plan; (vii) to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and 
regulations relating to the Plan; (viii) to modify or amend each Option or 
SAR (with the consent of the Optionee) or accelerate the exercise date of 
any Option or SAR; (ix) to reduce the exercise price of any Option or SAR 
to the then current Fair Market Value if the Fair Market Value of the 
Common Stock covered by such Option or SAR shall have declined since 
the date the Option or SAR was granted; (x) to authorize any person to 
execute on behalf of the Company any instrument required to effectuate the 
grant of an Option or SAR previously granted by the Administrator; and 
(xi) to make all other determinations deemed necessary or advisable for the 
administration of the Plan.

		(c)	Effect of Decisions by the Administrator.  All 
decisions, determinations and interpretations of the Administrator shall be 
final and binding on all Optionees and any other holders of any Options.

	5.	Eligibility.  Options and SARs may be granted only to 
Employees. An Employee who has been granted an Option or SAR may, 
if he or she is otherwise eligible, be granted an additional Option or 
Options, SAR or SARs. Each Option shall be evidenced by a written 
Option agreement, which shall expressly identify the Options as Incentive 
Stock Options or as Nonstatutory Stock Options, and which shall be in 
such form and contain such provisions as the Administrator shall from 
time to time deem appropriate.  However, notwithstanding such 
designation, to the extent that the aggregate Fair Market Value of the 
Shares with respect to which Options designated as Incentive Stock 
Options and options granted under other plans of the Company or any 
Parent or Subsidiary that are designated as incentive stock options are 
exercisable for the first time by an Optionee during any calendar year 
exceeds $100,000, such excess Options shall be treated as Nonstatutory 
Stock Options.  For purposes of the preceding sentence, (i) Options shall 
be taken into account in the order in which they were granted, and (ii) the 
Fair Market Value of the Shares shall be determined as of the time the 
Option or other incentive stock option with respect to such Shares is 
granted.  Without limiting the foregoing, the Administrator may, at any 
time, or from time to time, authorize the Company, with the consent of 
the respective recipients, to issue new Options or Options in exchange for 
the surrender and cancellation of any or all outstanding Options, other 
options, SARs or other stock appreciation rights.

	Neither the Plan nor any Option or SAR agreement shall confer 
upon any Optionee any right with respect to continuation of employment 
by the Company (or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliated Company), nor 
shall it interfere in any way with the Optionee's right or the right of the 
Company (or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliated Company) to terminate 
the Optionee's employment at any time or for any reason.

	6.	Term of Plan.  The Plan shall become effective upon its 
adoption by the Board or its approval by vote of the holders of a majority 
of the outstanding Shares of the Company entitled to vote on the adoption 
of the Plan, whichever is earlier.  It shall continue in effect for a term of 
ten (10) years unless sooner terminated under Section 14 of the Plan.

	7.	Term of Option.  The term of each Option shall be ten 
(10) years from the date of grant thereof or such shorter term as may be 
provided in the Option agreement.  However, in the case of an Incentive 
Stock Option granted to an Optionee who, at the time the Incentive

				64
<PAGE>

Stock Option is granted, owns stock representing more than ten percent 
(10%) of the voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any 
Parent or Subsidiary, the term of the Option shall be five (5) years from 
the date of grant thereof or such shorter time as may be provided in the 
Option agreement.

	8.	Exercise Price and Consideration.

		(a)	Exercise Price.  The per Share exercise price for 
the Shares issuable pursuant to an Option shall be such price as is 
determined by the Administrator, but shall in no event be less than 100% 
of the Fair Market Value of Common Stock, determined as of the date of 
grant of the Option.  In the event that the Administrator shall reduce the 
exercise price, the exercise price shall be no less than 100% of the Fair 
Market Value as of the date of that reduction.  In no event shall the per 
Share exercise price be less than 110% of the Fair Market Value per Share 
as of the date of grant in the case of an Incentive Stock Option granted to 
an Optionee who, immediately before the grant of such Option, owns 
Shares representing more than 10% of the voting power or value of all 
classes of stock of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary.

		(b)	Method of Payment.  The consideration to be 
paid for the Shares to be issued upon exercise of an Option, including the 
method of payment, shall be determined by the Administrator (and, in the 
case of an Incentive Stock Option, shall be determined at the time of grant) 
and may consist of (i) cash, (ii) check, (iii) promissory note, (iv) other 
Shares which have a Fair Market Value on the date of surrender equal to the 
aggregate exercise price of the Shares as to which said Option shall be 
exercised, (v) delivery of a properly executed exercise notice together with 
irrevocable instructions to a broker to promptly deliver to the Company 
the amount of sale or loan proceeds required to pay the exercise price, or 
(vi) any combination of the foregoing methods of payment and/or any 
other consideration or method of payment as shall be permitted under 
applicable corporate law.

	9.	Stock Appreciation Rights.

		(a)	Granted in Connection with Options.  At the 
sole discretion of the Administrator, SARs may be granted in connection 
with all or any part of an Option, either concurrently with the grant of the 
Option or at any time thereafter during the term of the Option.  The 
following provisions apply to SARs that are granted in connection with 
Options:

			(i)	The SAR shall entitle the Optionee to 
exercise the SAR by surrendering to the Company unexercised a portion of 
the related Option.  The Optionee shall receive in exchange from the 
Company an amount equal to the excess of (x) the Fair Market Value on 
the date of exercise of the SAR of the Common Stock covered by the 
surrendered portion of the related Option over (y) the exercise price of the 
Common Stock covered by the surrendered portion of the related Option.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Administrator may place limits on the 
amount that may be paid upon exercise of an SAR; provided, however, that 
such limit shall not restrict the exercisability of the related Option.

			(ii)	When an SAR is exercised, the related 
Option, to the extent surrendered, shall no longer be exercisable.

			(iii)	An SAR shall be exercisable only 
when and to the extent that the related Option is exercisable and 
shall expire no later than the date on which the related Option 
expires.

			(iv)	An SAR may only be exercised at a 
time when the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock covered by the 
related Option exceeds the exercise price of the Common Stock covered by 
the related Option.
 
 		(b)	Independent SARs.  At the sole discretion of the 
Administrator, SARs may be granted without related Options.  The 
following provisions apply to SARs that are not granted in connection 
with Options:

			(i)	The SAR shall entitle the Optionee, 
by exercising the SAR, to receive from the Company an amount 
equal to the excess of (x) the Fair Market Value of the Common 
Stock covered by exercised portion of the SAR, as of the date of 
such exercise, over (y) the Fair Market Value of the Common 
Stock covered by the exercised portion of the SAR, as of the date 
on which the SAR was granted; provided, however, that the 
Administrator may place limits on the amount that may be paid 
upon exercise of an SAR.

			(ii)	SARs shall be exercisable, in whole or 
in part, at such times as the Administrator shall specify in the 
Optionee's SAR agreement. 
				65
<PAGE>

		(c)	Form of Payment.  The Company's obligation 
arising upon the exercise of an SAR may be paid in Common Stock or in 
cash, or in any combination of Common Stock and cash, as the 
Administrator, in its sole discretion, may determine.  Shares issued upon 
the exercise of an SAR shall be valued at their Fair Market Value as of the
date of exercise.

		(d)	Rule 16b-3.  SARs granted to persons who are 
subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act ("Insiders") shall contain such
additional restrictions as may be required to be contained in the plan or
SAR agreement in order for the SAR to qualify for the maximum 
exemption provided by Rule 16b-3.

	10.	Method of Exercise.

		(a)	Procedure for Exercise; Rights as a Shareholder.
Any Option or SAR granted hereunder shall be exercisable at such times
and under such conditions as determined by the Administrator and as shall
be permissible under the terms of the Plan.

		An Option or SAR shall be deemed to be exercised when
written notice of such exercise has been given to the Company in
accordance with the terms of the Option or SAR by the person entitled to
exercise the Option or SAR and full payment for the Shares with respect to
which the Option is exercised has been received by the Company.  Full 
payment may, as authorized by the Administrator (and, in the case of an 
Incentive Stock Option, determined at the time of grant) and permitted by 
the Option agreement, consist of any consideration and method of payment 
allowable under Section 8(b) of the Plan.  Until the issuance (as evidenced
by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly
authorized transfer agent of the Company) of the stock certificate
evidencing such Shares, no right to vote or receive dividends or any other
rights as a shareholder shall exist with respect to the Optioned Stock, 
notwithstanding the exercise of the Option.  No adjustment will be made 
for a dividend or other right for which the record date is prior to the date
the stock certificate is issued, except as provided in Section 12 of the Plan.
An Option or SAR may not be exercised with respect to a fraction of a
Share.

		Exercise of an Option in any manner shall result in a
decrease in the number of Shares which thereafter shall be available, both
for purposes of the Plan and for sale under the Option, by the number of
Shares as to which the Option is exercised.  Exercise of an SAR in any
manner shall, to the extent the SAR is exercised, result in a decrease in the
number of Shares which thereafter shall be available for purposes of the
Plan, and the SAR shall cease to be exercisable to the extent it has been
exercised.

		(b)	Rule 16b-3.  Options and SARs granted to 
Insiders must comply with Rule 16b-3 and shall contain such additional 
conditions or restrictions as may be required thereunder to be contained in 
the Plan or the agreement to qualify for the maximum exemption from 
Section 16 of the Exchange Act with respect to Plan transactions.

		(c)	Termination of Continuous Employment.  
Upon termination of an Optionee's Continuous Status as Employee (other 
than termination by reason of the Optionee's death), the Optionee may, but
only within ninety (90) days after the date of such termination, exercise his
or her Option or SAR to the extent that it was exercisable at the date of 
such termination.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, an Option or
SAR may not be exercised after the date the Option or SAR would
otherwise expire by its terms due to the passage of time from the date of
grant.

		(d)	Death of Optionee.  In the event of the death of 
an Optionee:

			(1)	Who is at the time of death an 
Employee and who shall have been in Continuous Status as an 
Employee since the date of grant of the Option, the Option or 
SAR may be exercised at any time within six (6) months (or such 
other period of time not exceeding twelve (12) months as 
determined by the Administrator) following the date of death by 
the Optionee's estate or by a person who acquired the right to 
exercise the Option by bequest or inheritance, but only to the 
extent of the right to exercise that would have accrued had the 
Optionee continued living and terminated his or her employment 
six (6) months (or such other period of time not exceeding twelve 
(12) months as determined by the Administrator) after the date of 
death; or

			(2)	Within ninety (90) days after the 
termination of Continuous Status as an Employee, the Option or 
SAR may be exercised, at any time within six (6) months (or 
such other period of time not exceeding twelve (12) months as 
determined by the Administrator) following the date of death by 
the Optionee's estate or by a person who acquired the right to 
exercise the Option by bequest or inheritance, but only to the 
extent of the right to exercise that had accrued at the date of 
termination.

		Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, an Option or 
SAR may not be exercised after the date the Option or SAR would 
otherwise expire by its terms due to the passage of time from the date of 
grant.

		(e)	Stock Withholding to Satisfy Withholding Tax 
Obligations.  When an Optionee incurs tax liability in connection with the 
exercise of an Option or SAR, which tax liability is subject to tax 
withholding under applicable tax laws, and the Optionee is obligated to pay 
the Company an amount required to be withheld under applicable tax laws, 
the Optionee may satisfy the withholding tax obligation (including, at the 
election of the Optionee, any additional amount which the Optionee desires 
to have withheld in order to satisfy in whole or in part the Optionee's full 
estimated tax in connection with the exercise) by electing to have the 
Company withhold from the Shares to be issued

				66
<PAGE>

upon exercise of the Option, or the Shares to be issued upon exercise of 
the SAR, if any, that number of Shares having a Fair Market Value equal 
to the amount required to be withheld (and any additional amount desired to 
be withheld, as aforesaid).  The Fair Market Value of the Shares to be 
withheld shall be determined on the date that the amount of tax to be 
withheld is to be determined (the "Tax Date").

		All elections by an Optionee to have Shares withheld for 
this purpose shall be made in writing in a form acceptable to the 
Administrator and shall be subject to the following restrictions:

			(i)	the election must be made on or prior 
to the applicable Tax Date; and
			(ii)	all elections shall be subject to the 
consent or disapproval of the Administrator.

		In the event the election to have Shares withheld is made 
by an Optionee and the Tax Date is deferred under Section 83 of the Code 
because no election is filed under Section 83(b) of the Code, the Optionee 
shall receive the full number of Shares with respect to which the Option or 
SAR is exercised but such Optionee shall be unconditionally obligated to 
tender back to the Company the proper number of Shares on the Tax Date.

	11.	Non-Transferability of Options.  Options and SARs may 
not be sold, pledged, assigned, hypothecated, transferred or disposed of in 
any manner other than by will or by the laws of descent or distribution or 
pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order as defined by the Code or 
Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, or the rules 
thereunder, provided, however, that the Adminstrator may grant non-
qualified stock options that are freely transferable.  The designation of a 
beneficiary by an Optionee or holder of an SAR does not constitute a 
transfer.  An Option or an SAR may be exercised, during the lifetime of 
the Optionee or SAR holder, only by the Optionee or SAR holder or by a 
transferee permitted by this Section 11.

	12.	Adjustments Upon Changes in Capitalization or Merger.

		(a)	Changes in Capitalization.  Subject to any 
required action by the shareholders of the Company, the number of Shares 
covered by each outstanding Option and SAR, and the number of Shares 
which have been authorized for issuance under the Plan but as to which no 
Options or SARs have yet been granted or which have been returned to the 
Plan upon cancellation or expiration of an Option or SAR, as well as the 
price per Share covered by each such outstanding Option or SAR, shall be 
proportionately adjusted for any increase or decrease in the number of 
issued Shares resulting from a stock split, reverse stock split, stock 
dividend, combination or reclassification of the Common Stock, or any 
other increase or decrease in the aggregate number of issued Shares effected 
without receipt of consideration by the Company; provided, however, that 
conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be 
deemed to have been "effected without receipt of consideration."  Such 
adjustment shall be made by the Administrator, whose determination in 
that respect shall be final, binding and conclusive.  Except as expressly 
provided herein, no issuance by the Company of shares of stock of any 
class, or securities convertible into shares of stock of any class, shall 
affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, 
the number or price of Shares subject to an Option or SAR.

		(b)	Dissolution or Liquidation.  In the event of the 
proposed dissolution or liquidation of the Company, all outstanding 
Options and SARs will terminate immediately prior to the consummation 
of such proposed action, unless otherwise provided by the Administrator.  
The Administrator may, in the exercise of its sole discretion in such 
instances, declare that any Option or SAR shall terminate as of a date fixed 
by the Administrator and give each Optionee the right to exercise his or her 
Option or SAR as to all or any part of the Optioned Stock or SAR, 
including Shares as to which the Option or SAR would not otherwise be 
exercisable.

		(c)	Sale of Assets or Merger. Subject to the 
provisions of paragraph (d) hereof, in the event of a proposed sale of all or 
substantially all of the assets of the Company, or the merger of the 
Company with or into another corporation, each outstanding Option and 
SAR shall be assumed or an equivalent option or stock appreciation right 
shall be substituted by such successor corporation or a parent or subsidiary 
of such successor corporation, unless the Administrator determines, in the 
exercise of its sole discretion and in lieu of such assumption or 
substitution, that the Optionee shall have the right to exercise the Option 
or SAR as to all of the Optioned Stock, including Shares as to which the 
Option or SAR would not otherwise be exercisable.  If the Administrator 
makes an Option or SAR fully exercisable in lieu of assumption or 
substitution in the event of a merger or sale of assets, the Company shall 
notify the Optionee that the Option or SAR shall be fully exercisable for a 
period of thirty (30) days from the date of such notice, and the Option or 
SAR will terminate upon the expiration of such period.  For purposes of 
this paragraph, an Option granted under the Plan shall be deemed to be 
assumed if, following the sale of assets or merger, the Option confers the 
right to purchase, for each Share of Optioned Stock subject to the Option 
immediately prior to the sale of assets or merger, the consideration 
(whether stock, cash or other securities or property) received in the sale of 
assets or merger by holders of Common Stock for each Share held on the 
effective date of the transaction (and if such holders were offered a choice of 
consideration, the type of consideration chosen by the holders of a majority 
of the outstanding Shares); provided, however, that if such consideration 
received in the sale of assets or merger was not solely Common Stock of 
the successor corporation or its parent, the Administrator may, with the 
consent of the successor corporation and the participant, provide for the per 
share consideration to be received upon exercise of the Option to be solely 

				67
<PAGE>

Common Stock of the successor corporation or its parent equal in Fair 
Market Value to the per share consideration received by holders of 
Common Stock in the sale of assets or merger.

		(d)	Change in Control.  In the event of a "Change 
in Control" of the Company, as defined in paragraph (e) below, unless 
otherwise determined by the Administrator prior to the occurrence of such 
Change in Control, the following acceleration and valuation provisions 
shall apply:

			(1)	Any Options and SARs outstanding as 
of the date such Change in Control is determined to have occurred 
that are not yet exercisable and vested on such date shall become 
fully exercisable and vested; and

			(2)	The value of all outstanding Options 
and SARs shall, unless otherwise determined by the Administrator 
at or after grant, be cashed-out.  The amount at which such 
Options and SARs shall be cashed out shall be equal to the excess 
of (x) the Change in Control Price (as defined below) over (y) the 
exercise price of the Common Stock covered by the Option or 
SAR.  The cash-out proceeds shall be paid to the Optionee or, in 
the event of death of an Optionee prior to payment, to the estate 
of the Optionee or to a person who acquired the right to exercise 
the Option or SAR by bequest or inheritance.

		(e)	Definition of "Change in Control".  For 
purposes of this Section 12, a "Change in Control" means the happening 
of any of the following:

			( i )	When any "person", as such term is 
used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act (other than 
the Company, a Subsidiary or a Company employee benefit plan, 
including any trustee of such plan acting as trustee) is or becomes 
the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the 
Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the 
Company representing fifty percent (50%) or more of the 
combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding 
securities; or

			(ii)	The occurrence of a transaction 
requiring shareholder approval, and involving the sale of all or 
substantially all of the assets of the Company or the merger of 
the Company with or into another corporation.

		(f)	Change in Control Price.  For purposes of this 
Section 12, "Change in Control Price" shall be, as determined by the 
Administrator, (i) the highest Fair Market Value at any time within the 60-
day period immediately preceding the date of determination of the Change 
in Control Price by the Administrator (the "60-Day Period"), or (ii) the 
highest price paid or offered, as determined by the Administrator, in any 
bona fide transaction or bona fide offer related to the Change in Control of 
the Company, at any time within the 60-Day Period.

	13.	Time of Granting Options and SARs.  The date of grant 
of an Option or SAR shall, for all purposes, be the date on which the 
Administrator makes the determination granting such Option or SAR.  
Notice of the determination shall be given to each Employee to whom an 
Option or SAR is so granted within a reasonable time after the date of such 
grant.

	14.	Amendment and Termination of the Plan.

		(a)	Amendment and Termination.  The Board may 
at any time amend, alter, suspend or terminate the Plan, as it may deem 
advisable; provided that, to the extent necessary and desirable to comply 
with Applicable Laws, regulatons or rules, the Company shall obtain 
shareholder approval of any Plan amendment in such a manner and to such 
a degree as is required.

		(b)	Effect of Amendment or Termination.  Any 
such amendment, alteration, suspension or termination of the Plan shall 
not impair the rights of any Optionee or SAR holder under any grant 
theretofore made without his or her consent.  Such Options and SARs 
shall remain in full force and effect as if this Plan had not been amended or 
terminated.

	15.	Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares.  Shares shall not 
be issued with respect to an Option or SAR unless the exercise of such 
Option or SAR and the issuance and delivery of such Shares pursuant 
thereto shall comply with all relevant provisions of law, including, 
without limitation, the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Exchange 
Act, the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and the requirements 
of any stock exchange or quotation system upon which the Shares may 
then be listed or quoted, and shall be further subject to the approval of 
counsel for the Company with respect to such compliance.

		As a condition to the exercise of an Option or SAR or 
the issuance of Shares upon exercise of an Option or SAR, the Company 
may require the person exercising such Option or SAR to represent and 
warrant at the time of any such exercise that the Shares are being purchased 
only for investment and without any present intention to sell or distribute 
such Shares if, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, such a 
representation is required by any of the aforementioned relevant provisions 
of law.


				68
<PAGE>


		Inability of the Company to obtain authority from any 
regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority is deemed by the 
Company's counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any 
Shares hereunder, shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of 
the non-issuance or sale of such Shares as to which such requisite authority 
shall not have been obtained.

	16.	Reservation of Shares.  The Company, during the term 
of this Plan, will at all times reserve and keep available such number of 
Shares as shall be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Plan.



				69
<PAGE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>3
<TEXT>


							EXHIBIT 10.A.6
			APPLE COMPUTER, INC.
		    EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN
		(as amended through September 9, 1996)


	The following constitute the provisions of the Employee Stock 
Purchase Plan (herein called the "Plan") of Apple Computer, Inc. (herein 
called the "Company").

	1.	Purpose.	The purpose of the Plan is to provide 
employees of the Company and its subsidiaries with an opportunity to 
purchase Common Stock of the Company through payroll deductions.  It 
is the intention of the Company to have the Plan qualify as an "Employee 
Stock Purchase Plan" under Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986.  The provisions of the Plan shall, accordingly, be construed so as to 
extend and limit participation in a manner consistent with the requirements 
of that section of the Code.

	2.	Definitions.

		(a)	"Board"  shall mean the Board of Directors of 
the Company.

		(b)	"Common Stock"  shall mean the Common 
Stock, no par value, of the Company.

		(c)	"Company"  shall mean Apple Computer, Inc., 
a California corporation.

		(d)	"Compensation" shall mean all regular straight 
time earnings, payments for overtime, shift premium, incentive 
compensation, incentive payments, bonuses and commissions (except to 
the extent that the exclusion of any such items is specifically directed by 
the Board or its committee).

		(e)	"Designated Subsidiaries" shall mean the 
Subsidiaries which have been designated by the Board from time to time in 
its sole discretion as eligible to participate in the Plan.

		(f)	"Employee" means any person, including an 
officer, who is customarily employed for at least twenty (20) hours per 
week and more than five (5) months in a calendar year by the Company or 
one of its Designated Subsidiaries.

		(g)	"Plan"  shall mean this Employee Stock 
Purchase Plan.

		(h)	"Section 16 Person" shall mean any person 
participating in the Plan who has been designated by the Board of Directors 
as having authority to carry out policy-making functions such that the 
person is subject to the reporting and short-swing profit regulations of 
Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

		(i)	"Subsidiary" shall mean a corporation, domestic 
or foreign, of which not less than 50% of the voting shares are held by the 
Company or a Subsidiary, whether or not such corporation now exists or 
is hereafter organized or acquired by the Company or a Subsidiary.

		(j)	"1934 Act Section 16" shall mean Section 16 
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations 
promulgated thereunder.

	3.	Eligibility.

		(a)	Any Employee as defined in Section 2 who 
shall be employed by the Company or one of its Designated Subsidiaries 
on the date his or her participation in the Plan is effective shall be eligible 
to participate in the Plan, subject to the limitations imposed by Section 
423(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

				70
<PAGE>

		(b)	Any provisions of the Plan to the contrary 
notwithstanding, no Employee shall be granted an option under the Plan (i) 
if, immediately after the grant, such Employee would own shares and/or 
hold outstanding options to purchase stock possessing five percent (5%) or 
more of the total combined voting power or value of all classes of shares 
of the Company or of any Subsidiary of the Company, or (ii) which 
permits his or her rights to purchase shares under all employee stock 
purchase plans of the Company and its Subsidiaries to accrue at a rate 
which exceeds Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000) of the fair market 
value of the shares (determined at the time such option is granted) for each 
calendar year in which such stock option is outstanding at any time.

	4.	Offering Dates.  The Plan shall be implemented by one 
offering during each six-month period of the Plan, commencing on or 
about January 1, 1981 and continuing thereafter until terminated in 
accordance with Section 19 hereof.  The Board of Directors of the 
Company shall have the power to change the duration of offering periods 
with respect to future offerings without shareholder approval if such change 
is announced at least fifteen (15) days prior to the scheduled beginning of 
the first offering period to be affected.

	5.	Participation.

		(a)	An eligible Employee may become a participant 
in the Plan by completing a subscription agreement authorizing payroll 
deductions on the form provided by the Company and filing it with the 
Company's payroll office prior to the applicable offering date.  Once filed, 
the subscription agreement shall remain effective for all subsequent 
offering periods until the participant withdraws from the Plan as provided 
in Section 10 hereof or files another subscription agreement.

		(b)	Payroll deductions for a participant shall 
commence on the first payroll following the commencement offering date 
and shall continue at the same rate until such time as the participant 
withdraws from the Plan as provided in Section 10 hereof or another 
subscription agreement is filed which changes the rate of payroll 
deductions.

	6.	Payroll Deductions.

		(a)	At the time a participant files his or her 
subscription agreement, he or she shall elect to have payroll deductions 
made on each payday during subsequent offering periods at a rate not 
exceeding ten percent (10%) of the Compensation which he or she received 
on such payday, and the aggregate of such payroll deductions during any 
offering period shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of his or her aggregate 
Compensation during said offering period.

		(b)	All payroll deductions made by a participant 
shall be credited to his or her account under the Plan.  A participant may 
not make any additional payments into such account.

		(c)	A participant may discontinue his or her 
participation in the Plan as provided in Section 10, or may lower, but not 
increase, the rate of his or her payroll deductions (within the limitations set
forth in subsection (a) above) during an offering period by completing and 
filing with the Company a new authorization for payroll deductions.  The 
change in rate shall be effective within fifteen (15) days following the 
Company's receipt of the new authorization.

		(d)	A participant may increase his or her rate of 
payroll deductions (within the limitations set forth in subsection (a) 
above) to be effective for the next offering period by completing and filing
with the Company a new authorization for payroll deductions at least 
fifteen (15) days before the beginning of said offering period.

	7.	Grant of Option.

		(a)	At the beginning of each six-month offering 
period, each eligible Employee participating in the Plan shall be granted an
option to purchase (at the per share option price) up to a number of shares 
of the Company's Common Stock determined by dividing the Employee's 
accumulated payroll deductions (not to exceed an amount equal to ten 
percent (10%) of his or her Compensation during the applicable offering 
period) by the lower of (i)eighty-five percent (85%) of the fair market 
value of a share of the Company's Common Stock on the date of the 
commencement of said offering period, or (ii)eighty-five percent (85%) of 
the fair market value of a share of the Company's Common Stock on the 
date of the expiration of the offering period, subject to the limitations set
forth in Sections 3(b) and 12 hereof, and subject to the following 
limitation:  The number of shares of the Company's Common Stock 
subject to any option granted to an Employee pursuant to this Plan shall 
not exceed two hundred percent (200%) of the number of shares of the 
Company's Common Stock determined by dividing an amount equal to ten 
percent (10%) of the Employee's semi-annual Compensation as of the date 
of the commencement of the applicable offering period by eighty-five 
percent (85%) of the fair market value of a share of the Company's 
Common Stock on the date of the commencement of said offering period.  
Fair market value of a share of the Company's Common Stock shall be 
determined as provided in Section 7(b) herein.
				71
<PAGE>

		(b)	The option price per share of such shares shall 
be the lower of:  (i) 85% of the fair market value of a share of the 
Common Stock of the Company at the commencement of the six-month 
offering period; or (ii) 85% of the fair market value of a share of the 
Common Stock of the Company at the time the option is exercised at the 
termination of the six-month offering period.  The fair market value of the 
Company's Common Stock on a given date shall be the mean of the 
reported bid and asked prices for that date, or if the Common Stock is listed 
on an exchange or quoted on the Nasdaq National Market, the closing sale 
price on such exchange or quotation system for that date.

	8.	Exercise of Option.  Unless a participant withdraws from 
the Plan as provided in Section 10, his or her option for the purchase of 
shares will be exercised automatically at the end of the offering period, and 
the maximum number of full shares subject to option will be purchased for 
him or her at the applicable option price with the accumulated payroll 
deductions in his or her account.  During his or her lifetime, a participant's 
option to purchase shares hereunder is exercisable only by him or her.

	9.	Delivery; Roll-Over of Fractional Share Interests.  

		As promptly as practicable after the termination of each 
offering, the Company shall arrange for the delivery to each participant, as 
appropriate, of a certificate representing the number of full shares purchased 
upon exercise of his or her option.  No fractional shares shall be issued. 
Any cash remaining to the credit of a participant's account under the Plan 
after a purchase by him or her of shares at the termination of each offering 
period which is insufficient to purchase a full share of Common Stock of 
the Company subject to option shall remain in such participant's account 
and shall be applied to the next succeeding offering period unless the 
participant has withdrawn as to future offering periods, in which case such 
cash shall be returned to said participant. Any cash attributable to shares in 
excess of the number of shares subject to option to the participant (as 
determined in accordance with Section 7(a) hereof) shall be returned to the 
participant.

	10. 	Withdrawal; Termination of Employment.

		(a)	A participant may withdraw all but not less 
than all the payroll deductions credited to his or her account under the Plan 
at any time prior to the end of the offering period by giving written notice 
to the Company.  All of the participant's payroll deductions credited to his 
or her account will be paid to him or her promptly after receipt of his or 
her notice of withdrawal and his or her option for the current period will be 
automatically terminated, and no further payroll deductions for the purchase 
of shares will be made during the offering period.

		(b)	Upon termination of the participant's 
employment prior to the end of the offering period for any reason, 
including retirement or death, the payroll deductions credited to his or her 
account will be returned to him or her or, in the case of his or her death, to 
the person or persons entitled thereto under Section 14, and his or her 
option will be automatically terminated.

		(c)	In the event an Employee fails to remain in the 
continuous employ of the Company or one of its Designated Subsidiaries 
for at least twenty (20) hours per week during the offering period in which 
the employee is a participant, he or she will be deemed to have elected to 
withdraw from the Plan and the payroll deductions credited to his or her 
account will be returned to him or her and his or her option terminated.

		(d)	Except as provided in Section 3(a) with respect 
to Section 16 Persons, a participant's withdrawal from an offering will not 
have any effect upon his or her eligibility to participate in a succeeding 
offering or in any similar plan which may hereafter be adopted by the 
Company.  However, a new subscription agreement will have to be filed in 
such case.

	11.	No Interest.  No interest shall accrue on the payroll 
deductions of a participant in the Plan.

	12.	Stock.

		(a)	The maximum number of shares of the 
Company's Common Stock which shall be made available for sale under 
the Plan shall be eleven million five hundred thousand (11,500,000) 
shares, subject to adjustment upon changes in capitalization of the 
Company as provided in Section 18. The shares to be sold to participants 
under the Plan may, at the election of the Company, be either treasury 
shares or shares authorized but unissued.  If at the termination of any 
offering period the total number of shares which would otherwise be 
subject to options granted pursuant to Section 7(a) hereof exceeds the 
number of shares then available under the Plan (after deduction of all share
for which options have been exercised or are then outstanding), the 
Company shall promptly notify the participants, and shall, in its sole 
discretion 

				72
<PAGE>

(i) make a pro rata allocation of the shares remaining available for option 
grant in as uniform a manner as shall be practicable and as it shall 
determine to be equitable, (ii) terminate the offering period without 
issuance of any shares or (iii) obtain shareholder approval of an increase in
the number of shares authorized under the Plan such that all options could 
be exercised in full.  The Company may delay determining which of (i), 
(ii) or (iii) above it shall decide to effect, and may accordingly delay 
issuances of any shares under the Plan, for such time as is necessary to 
attempt to obtain shareholder approval of any increase in shares authorized 
under the Plan.  The Company shall promptly notify participants of its 
determination to effect (i), (ii) or (iii) above upon making such decision.  
A participant may withdraw all but not less than all the payroll deductions 
credited to his or her account under the Plan at any time prior to such 
notification from the Company.  In the event the Company determines to 
effect (i) or (ii) above, it shall promptly upon such determination return to 
each participant all payroll deductions not applied towards the purchase of 
shares.  

		(b)	The participant will have no interest or voting 
right in shares covered by his or her option until such option has been 
exercised.

		(c)	Shares to be delivered to a participant under the 
Plan will be registered in the name of the participant or in the name of the 
participant and the spouse of the participant.

	13.	Administration.  The Plan shall be administered by a 
committee of members of the Board of Directors, which committee shall 
be appointed by the Board.  The administration, interpretation or 
application of the Plan by such committee shall be final, conclusive and 
binding upon all participants.  Members of the committee shall not be 
permitted to participate in the Plan.

	14.	Designation of Beneficiary.

		(a)	A participant may indicate in his or her 
subscription agreement, or may file a written designation of beneficiary 
with respect to, a person who is to receive any shares and cash, if any, 
from the participant's account under the Plan in the event of such 
participant's death subsequent to the end of the offering period but prior to 
delivery to him or her of such shares and cash.  In addition, a participant 
may file a written designation of a beneficiary who is to receive any cash 
from the participant's account under the Plan in the event of such 
participant's death prior to the end of the offering period.

		(b)	Such designation of beneficiary may be changed 
by the participant at any time by written notice.  In the event of the death 
of a participant and in the absence of a beneficiary validly designated under 
the Plan who is living at the time of such participant's death, the 
Company shall deliver such shares and/or cash to the executor or 
administrator of the estate of the participant, or if no such executor or 
administrator has been appointed (to the knowledge of the Company), the 
Company, in its discretion, may deliver such shares and/or cash to the 
spouse or to any one or more dependents or relatives of the participant, or 
if no spouse, dependent or relative is known to the Company, then to such 
other person as the Company may designate.

	15.	Transferability.  Neither payroll deductions credited to a 
participant's account nor any rights with regard to the exercise of an option 
or to receive shares under the Plan may be assigned, transferred, pledged or 
otherwise disposed of in any way (other than by will, the laws of descent 
and distribution or as provided in Section 14 hereof) by the participant.  
Any such attempt at assignment, transfer, pledge or other disposition shall 
be without effect, except that the Company may treat such act as an 
election to withdraw funds in accordance with Section 10.

	16.	Use of Funds.  All payroll deductions received or held by 
the Company under the Plan may be used by the Company for any 
corporate purpose, and the Company shall not be obligated to segregate 
such payroll deductions.

	17.	Reports.  Individual accounts will be maintained for each 
participant in the Plan.  Statements of account will be given to 
participating Employees semi-annually within a reasonable period of time 
following the stock purchase date, which statements will set forth the 
amounts of payroll deductions, the per share purchase price, the number of 
shares purchased, the amount of cash rolled over into the next offering 
period and the remaining cash balance, if any.

	18.	Adjustments Upon Changes in Capitalization.  Subject 
to any required action by the shareholders of the Company, the number of 
shares of Common Stock covered by each option under the Plan which has 
not yet been exercised and the number of shares of Common Stock which 
have been authorized for issuance under the Plan but have not yet been 
placed under option (collectively, the "Reserves"), as well as the price per 
share of Common Stock covered by each option under the Plan which has 
not yet been exercised, shall be proportionately adjusted for any increase or 
decrease in the number of issued shares of Common Stock resulting from a 
stock split or the payment of a stock dividend (but only on the Common 
Stock) or any other increase or decrease in the number of shares of 
Common Stock

				73
<PAGE>

effected without receipt of consideration by the Company; provided, 
however, that conversion of any convertible securities of the Company 
shall not be deemed to have been "effected without receipt of 
consideration".  Such adjustment shall be made by the Board, whose 
determination in that respect shall be final, binding and conclusive.  Except 
as expressly provided herein, no issue by the Company of shares of stock 
of any class, or securities convertible into or exercisable for shares of stock 
of any class, shall affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be 
made with respect to, the number or price of shares of Common Stock 
subject to an Option.

	The Board may, if it so determines in the exercise of its sole 
discretion, also make provision for adjusting the Reserves, as well as the 
price per share of Common Stock covered by each outstanding option 
under the Plan, in the event that the Company effects one or more 
reorganizations, recapitalizations, rights offerings or other increases or 
reductions of shares of its outstanding Common Stock, and in the event of 
the Company being consolidated with or merged into any other 
corporation.

	19.	Amendment and Termination of the Plan.

		(a)	Amendment and Termination.  The Board may 
at any time amend, alter, suspend or discontinue the Plan, but no 
amendment, alteration, suspension or discontinuation shall be made which 
would impair the rights of any participant under any option theretofore 
granted without his or her consent.  

		(b)	Shareholder Approval.  The Company shall 
obtain shareholder approval of any Plan amendment to the extent necessary 
and desirable to comply with Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or with Section 423 of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (or any successor statute or rule or 
other applicable law, rule or regulation), such shareholder approval to be 
obtained in such a manner and to such a degree as is required by the 
applicable law, rule or regulation.

		(c)	Effect of Amendment or Termination.  Any 
such amendment or termination of the Plan shall not affect options already 
granted hereunder and such options shall remain in full force and effect as if 
this Plan had not been amended or terminated.

	20.	Notices.  All notices or other communications by a 
participant to the Company under or in connection with the Plan shall be 
deemed to have been duly given when received in the form specified by the 
Company at the location, or by the person, designated by the Company for 
the receipt thereof.  All notices or other communications to a participant 
by the Company shall be deemed to have been duly given when sent by the 
Company by regular mail to the address of the participant on the human 
resources records of the Company or when posted on AppleLink or any 
substitute general electronic messaging and bulletin board system utilized 
by the Company.

	21.	Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares.  Shares shall not 
be issued with respect to an option unless the exercise of such option and 
the issuance and delivery of such shares pursuant thereto shall comply with 
all applicable provisions of law, domestic or foreign, including, without 
limitation, the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the rules and regulations promulgated 
thereunder, and the requirements of any stock exchange or automated 
quotation system upon which the shares may then be listed or quoted, and 
shall be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with 
respect to such compliance.

		As a condition to the exercise of an option, the 
Company may require the person exercising such option to represent and 
warrant at the time of any such exercise that the shares are being purchased 
only for investment and without any present intention to sell or distribute 
such shares if, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, such a 
representation is required by any of the aforementioned applicable 
provisions of law.


				74

<PAGE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>4
<TEXT>

								  
EXHIBIT 10.A.40
August 19, 1996

Mr. Gerald F. Forsyth
120 Teresita Way
Los Gatos, CA 95032


Employment Agreement

Dear Fred:

		The following sets forth our agreement regarding the 
terms and provisions of your employment as an officer and employee of 
Apple Computer, Inc. (the" Company"). Capitalized words which are not 
otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such words in 
Section 5 of this Agreement.

		1.	Commencement of Employment. Your 
employment under this Agreement commenced on July 1, 1996  (the 
"Effective Date").

		2.	Position.  You shall be employed as Senior 
Vice President, General Manager of the Macintosh Products Group and 
shall report directly to the Chief Operating Officer of the Company, and 
your duties and responsibilities to the Company shall be consistent in all 
respects with such position.  You shall devote substantially all of your 
business time, attention, skills and efforts exclusively to the business and 
affairs of the Company, other than de minimis  amounts of time devoted 
by you to the management of your personal finances or to engaging in 
charitable or community services.  Your principal place of employment 
shall be the executive offices of the Company in Cupertino, California, 
although you understand and agree that you will be required to travel from 
time to time for business purposes. 

		3.	Compensation.

		(a)	Base Salary.  As compensation to you for all 
services rendered to the Company and its subsidiaries, the Company will 
pay you a base salary at the rate of not less than four hundred forty 
thousand dollars ($440,000) per annum as of the Effective Date. Your base 
salary will be paid to you in accordance with the Company's regular 
payroll practices applicable to its executive employees.

		(b)	Bonus.  You shall be eligible to participate in 
the annual Senior Executive Bonus Plan (domestic) sponsored by the 
Company or any successor plan thereto.  Such bonus program shall afford 
you the opportunity to earn an annual bonus for each fiscal year of the 
Company during your employment.  During the Company's Fiscal Year 
1996 only, your target annual bonus will be three hundred thirty thousand 
dollars ($330,000).  The amount of your target annual bonus thereafter 
shall be reviewed annually by the Company.  Each annual bonus shall be 
paid to you in accordance with the terms and conditions of the bonus plan 
then in effect.

		(c)	Stock Options.  In consideration of this 
Agreement, we will recommend to the Apple Computer, Inc. Board of 
Directors a stock option grant of 150,000 shares of Apple Computer, Inc. 
common stock.  Each grant vests over a three year period at 33% 
increments beginning one year from the grant date and shall at all times be 
subject to the terms and conditions of the Apple Computer, Inc. 1990 
Stock Option Plan, as amended, and any successor plans thereto ("1990 
Stock Plan").  

		(d)	Benefits. You shall be eligible to participate in 
all employee benefit plans and arrangements that the Company provides to 
its executive employees in accordance with the terms of such plans and 
arrangements, which shall be no less favorable to you, in the aggregate, 
than the terms and provisions available to other executive employees of the 
Company.

		4.	Termination.

		(a)	Termination for Cause.  If your employment is 
terminated by the Company for Cause, the Company shall pay you the full 
amount of the accrued but unpaid base salary you have earned through the 
date of your termination, plus a cash payment (calculated on the basis of 
your base salary then in effect) for all unused accrued vacation.  In addition,
you shall be entitled to benefits under the employee plans and arrangements 
described in Section 3(d) above in accordance with terms and provisions of 
such plans and arrangements.

				75
<PAGE>

		(b)	Termination Other than for Cause.  During the 
three (3) year period following the Effective Date only, if your 
employment is terminated by the Company for reasons other than for 
Cause, the Company shall pay you the full amount of the accrued but 
unpaid base salary you have earned through the date of your termination, 
plus a cash payment (calculated on the basis of your base salary then in 
effect) for all unused accrued vacation.  In addition, the Company shall pay 
you a lump sum amount and benefits as follows:

	Lump Sum Payout

	Termination Date			Amount

	During 3-year period 		100% of annual base salary 
	following Effective Date		($440,000)
						
	Additional Benefits

	Continued Company-paid medical and dental insurance
	benefits for a maximum of 12 months after  employment 
	termination date.

	Outplacement assistance by a vendor of the Company's
	choosing and/or administrative assistance, the costs of which 
	shall not exceed $15,000.

	The computer and printer in your office.
					
There shall be no other payments or benefits on termination.

		5.	Definitions.  For purposes of this Agreement, 
the following capitalized words shall have the meanings set forth below:

		"Cause" shall mean a termination of your employment 
which is a result of (i) your felony conviction, (ii) your willful disclosure
of material trade secrets or other material confidential information related to
the business of the Company and its subsidiaries or (iii) your willful and 
continued failure substantially to perform your duties with the Company 
(other than any such failure resulting from your incapacity due to physical 
or mental illness or any such actual or anticipated failure resulting from a
resignation by you) after a written demand for substantial performance is 
delivered to you by the Company's Chief Administrative Officer, which 
demand specifically identifies the manner in which the Company believes 
that you have not substantially performed your duties, and which 
performance is not substantially corrected by you within 10 days of receipt 
of such demand.   For purposes of the previous sentence, no act or failure 
to act on your part shall be deemed "willful" unless done, or omitted to be
done, by you not in good faith and without reasonable belief that your 
action or omission was in the best interest of the Company.

		6.	Notice.  For the purpose of this Agreement, 
notices and all other communications provided for in this Agreement shall 
be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered 
or mailed by United States registered mail, return receipt requested, postage
prepaid, addressed to the Apple Computer, Inc., 1 Infinite Loop, MS 75-
8A, Cupertino, California 95014, Attn.: George Scalise, Chief 
Administrative Officer,  with a copy to the General Counsel of the 
Company, or to you at the address set forth on the first page of this 
Agreement or to such other address as either party may have furnished to 
the other in writing in accordance herewith, except that notice of change of 
address shall be effective only upon receipt.

		7.	Miscellaneous.  

		(a)	Amendments, Waivers, Retention Agreement, 
Etc.  No provision of this Agreement may be modified, waived or 
discharged unless such waiver, modification or discharge is agreed to in 
writing.  No waiver by either party hereto at any time of any breach by the 
other party hereto of, or compliance with, any condition or provision of 
this Agreement to be performed by such other party shall be deemed a 
waiver of similar or dissimilar provisions or conditions at the same or at 
any prior or subsequent time.  No agreements or representations, oral or 
otherwise, express or implied, with respect to the subject matter hereof 
have been made by either party which are not expressly set forth in this 
Agreement and this Agreement shall supersede all prior agreements, 
negotiations, correspondence, undertakings and communications of the 
parties, oral or written, with respect to the subject matter hereof; provided, 
however, that the Retention Agreement between you and the Company 
shall supersede this Agreement in its entirety upon the Change in Control 
Date as specified in the Retention Agreement. 

	(b)	Validity.  The invalidity or unenforceability of 
any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or 
enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement, which shall 
remain in full force and effect.

				76
<PAGE>

	(c)	Counterparts.  This Agreement may be executed 
in several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original but 
all of which together will constitute one and the same instrument.

	(d)	Withholding.  Amounts paid to you hereunder 
shall be subject to all applicable federal, state and local withholding taxes.

	(e)	Source of Payments.  All payments provided 
under this Agreement, other than payments made pursuant to a plan which 
provides otherwise, shall be paid in cash from the general funds of the 
Company, and no special or separate fund shall be established, and no other 
segregation of assets made, to assure payment.  You will have no right, 
title or interest whatsoever in or to any investments which the Company 
may make to aid it in meeting its obligations hereunder.  To the extent 
that any person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company 
hereunder, such right shall be no greater than the right of an unsecured 
creditor of the Company.

	(f)	Headings.  The headings contained in this 
Agreement are intended solely for convenience of reference and shall not 
affect the rights of the parties to this Agreement.

	(g)	Governing Law.  The validity, interpretation, 
construction, and performance of this Agreement shall be governed by the 
laws of the State of California applicable to contracts entered into and 
performed in such State.

*       *      *       *

	If this letter sets forth our agreement on the subject 
matter hereof, kindly sign and return to the Company the enclosed copy of 
this letter which will then constitute our agreement on this subject.


			
	Sincerely,

	APPLE COMPUTER, INC.



		
	By__________________________
			         
	Marco Landi
	Executive Vice President and 
	Chief Operating Officer

				

Agreed to as of this ____ day of August, 1996.



_______________________________
                Gerald F. Forsyth


				77
<PAGE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-11
<SEQUENCE>5
<TEXT>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
            			EXHIBIT  11

			   APPLE COMPUTER, INC.

 		COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS (LOSS) PER COMMON SHARE

		(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

			
			Fiscal Years Ended	
		September 27,		September 29,		September 30,
	             1996	             1995	             1994
<S>		     <C>		     <C>	    	     <C>
Primary Earnings
(Loss) Per Share			
			
			
Net income(loss)    ($816)		     $424		    $310
			
Shares			
 Weighted average
 number of common
 shares
 outstanding
 (in thousands)	   123,734		    121,192		  117,808
			
 Adjustment for
 dilutive effect
 of outstanding
 stock options
 (in thousands)	      --		      1,855		      927
 			
Weighted average
number of
common and
common
equivalent
shares used
for primary
earnings(loss)
per share (in
thousands)	   123,734		    123,047		  118,735
			
Primary earnings
(loss) per
common and
common
equivalent
share		    ($6.59)	 	      $3.45		    $2.61
			
Fully Diluted
Earnings(Loss)
Per Share			
			
Net income (loss)   ($816)		     $424		    $310
			
Shares			
 Weighted averages
 number of common
 shares
 outstanding
 (in thousands)	   123,734		    121,192	 	  118,735
			
 Adjustment for
 dilutive
 effect of
 outstanding
 stock options
 (in thousands)	     --		              2,076		    1,002
			
Weighted average
number of common
and common
equivalent shares 
used for fully
diluted earninngs
(loss) per share
(in thousands)	   123,734		    123,268		  118,810
			
Fully diluted
earnings(loss)
per common and
common
equivalent share    ($6.59)		      $3.44		    $2.61
</TABLE>




				78

<PAGE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>6
<TEXT>



			EXHIBIT 21

		SUBSIDIARIES OF APPLE COMPUTER, INC*








Name				Jurisdiction of
				Incorporation
	
Apple Computer B.V.		Netherlands
Apple Computer, Inc. Limited	Ireland
Apple Computer Limited		Ireland
Apple Japan, Inc.		Japan



















*Pursuant to Item 601(b)(21)(ii) of Regulation S-K, the names of other 
subsidiaries of Apple Computer, Inc. are omitted because, considered in 
the aggregate, they would not constitute a significant subsidiary as of 
the end of the year covered by this report.





				79

<PAGE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>7
<DESCRIPTION>ART. 5 FDS FOR FY95 FORM 10-K
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>


<ARTICLE>	5

<MULTIPLIER>	1,000,000
	
	
<PERIOD-TYPE>		YEAR
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>	SEP-27-1996
<PERIOD-END>		SEP-27-1996
	
<CASH>									1,552
<SECURITIES>								  193
<RECEIVABLES>								1,587
<ALLOWANCES>								   91
<INVENTORY>								  662
<CURRENT-ASSETS>							4,515
<PP&E>									1,348
<DEPRECIATION>								  750
<TOTAL-ASSETS>								5,364
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>							2,003
<BONDS>									  949
<COMMON>								  439
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>							    0
<PREFERRED>								    0
<OTHER-SE>								1,619
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>						6,234
	
<SALES>									9,833
<TOTAL-REVENUES>							9,833
<CGS>									8,865
<TOTAL-COSTS>								8,865
<OTHER-EXPENSES>							2,321
<LOSS-PROVISION>							    0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>							   60
<INCOME-PRETAX>							      (1,295)
<INCOME-TAX>								(479)
<INCOME-CONTINUING>							(816)
<DISCONTINUED>								    0
<EXTRAORDINARY>								    0
<CHANGES>								    0
<NET-INCOME>								(816)
<EPS-PRIMARY>							       (6.59)
<EPS-DILUTED>							       (6.59)



	



</TEXT>

</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
