-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 VutOabwgosgGofeh4W28ZOt6UJ3cxvvMzFZtQ2LiBuRepDPjadANs8J/4vsceJW7
 MSQeEFaFDSqUTWhaEp8jtg==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000320193-95-000016.txt : 19951220
<SEC-HEADER>0000320193-95-000016.hdr.sgml : 19951220
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000320193-95-000016
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19950929
FILED AS OF DATE:		19951219
SROS:			NASD

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			APPLE COMPUTER INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000320193
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS [3571]
		IRS NUMBER:				942404110
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			CA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-10030
		FILM NUMBER:		95602696

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		20525 MARIANI AVE
		CITY:			CUPERTINO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95014
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4089961010
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<TEXT>

                                        
    _________________________________________________________________________
                           ___________________________
                                        
                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D. C. 20549
                                    Form 10-K
          (Mark One)
          [X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
               SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
          For the fiscal year ended September 29, 1995  OR
          [   ]     TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
               THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
             For the transition period from __________ to __________
                                        
                         Commission file number 0-10030

                              APPLE COMPUTER, INC.
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
                                        
              CALIFORNIA                          94-2404110
    [State or other jurisdiction     [I.R.S. Employer Identification No.]
  of incorporation or organization]
                                     
          1 Infinite Loop                           95014
        Cupertino California                      [Zip Code]
 [Address of principal executive offices]
                                        
       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (408) 996-1010
                                        
        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None
                                        
           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                           Common Stock, no par value
                          Common Share Purchase Rights
                               (Titles of classes)
                                        
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the Registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes  [X]  No   [   ]

                                        
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of the Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy
or information  statements incorporated by reference to Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  [   ]

The aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
Registrant was approximately $ 4,481,098,558 as of December 1, 1995,
based upon the closing price on the Nasdaq National Market reported for
such date.  Shares of Common Stock held by each executive officer and
director and by each person who beneficially owns more than 5% of the
outstanding Common Stock have been excluded in that such persons may
under certain circumstances be deemed to be affiliates.  This
determination of executive officer or affiliate status is not necessarily
a conclusive determination for other purposes.
                                        
  123,022,624 shares of Common Stock Issued and Outstanding as of 
                         December 1, 1995

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE,
Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement dated December 19, 1995 (the
"Proxy Statement"), to be delivered to shareholders in connection with
the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held January 23, 1996, are
incorporated by reference into Parts I and III.

 <PAGE>
                                        
                                     PART I

Item 1. Business

General

Apple  Computer,  Inc. ("Apple" or the "Company") was incorporated  under
the  laws  of the State of California on January 3, 1977.  The  Company's
principal  executive officers are located at 1 Infinite Loop,  Cupertino,
California, 95014 and its telephone number is (408) 996-1010.

The   Company  designs,  manufactures  and  markets  microprocessor-based
personal  computers  and  related personal computing  products  for  sale
primarily   to  business,  education,  home,  and  government  customers.
Substantially  all of the Company's net sales to date have  been  derived
from  the  sale  of personal computers from its Apple Macintosh (registered 
trademark)  line  of computers and related software and peripherals.  The 
Company operates  in one    principal   industry   segment   across   
geographically   diverse marketplaces.

Apple delivers a full range of information solutions to people in a  wide
variety  of  growing markets.  The Company's strategy is to maintain  and
expand  its  market  share  in  the  personal  computer  industry   while
developing  and expanding new related businesses, such as its  businesses
in  on-line  services,  licensing  of  the  Macintosh  operating  system,
client/server systems and personal interactive electronics.

During  1995, the Company continued a major product transition  to  Power
Macintosh (registered trademark),  its  line  of  Macintosh  computers  
based  on  the  PowerPC (registered trademark) architecture,  a Reduced 
Instruction Set Computing ("RISC")  microprocessor jointly  developed by 
Apple, International Business Machines  Corporation ("IBM")  and Motorola, 
Inc.  The Company believes that these PowerPC  based products   yield   
significant  improvements  in  price/performance   and functionality  
compared with its products built using the Motorola  68000 series  of  
Complex  Instruction  Set Computing  ("CISC")  microprocessors. Further  
information regarding this product transition may  be  found  in Part  II,  
Item  7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (the  "Form  10-K") under  the  
subheading  "Product Introductions and Transitions"  included under  the  
heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition," 
which information is hereby incorporated by reference.

The  Company  announced the licensing of the Macintosh  operating  system
("Mac  OS") to other personal computer vendors in January 1995 in an effort
to  increase overall market share.  Several vendors are currently selling
product  which utilizes Mac OS.  The Company believes that licensing  the
operating  system  will  result  in a broader  installed  base  on  which
software  vendors can develop and provide technical innovations  for  the
Macintosh platform.  Further information regarding the licensing  of  the
Mac OS may be found in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K under the 
subheading "Competition" included under  the heading "Factors That May 
Affect Future Results and Financial Condition", which information is hereby 
incorporated by reference.

Principal products

The Company offers a wide range of personal computing products, including
personal  computers, related peripherals, software,  and  networking  and
connectivity products.

Personal Computing Products

Apple  Macintosh personal computers were first introduced in  1984,  and 
are characterized by their intuitive ease of use, innovative applications 
base, and built-in networking, graphics and multimedia capabilities.

Currently, the Company uses two types of microprocessors in its  line  of
personal  computing products: the PowerPC RISC-based microprocessor,  and
the  Motorola  68000  CISC-based microprocessor.   The  majority  of  the
Company's products are built using the PowerPC RISC-based microprocessor,
which include the Power Macintosh (registered trademark) family of personal  
computers  and certain  products  within  the  Macintosh Performa 
(registered trademark)  and  the  PowerBook 
families  of personal computers. Products currently based on the Motorola
series  of  CISC-based  microprocessors include  the  Macintosh  LC,  and
certain  products  within  the  Macintosh  Performa  and  the  PowerBook
families  of  personal  computers.   Generally,  products  based  on  the
Motorola series of microprocessors can also be upgraded to take advantage
of the PowerPC processor.  The Company also offers DOS compatible systems
which include built-in 68LC040 and 486DX2 processors enabling them to run
applications,  games, and CD-ROM titles for MS-DOS 6.2  and  Windows  3.1
operating systems as well as the Mac(trademark)OS operating system.





                                        2
<PAGE>

Power Macintosh

The  Power  Macintosh  high-performance family of personal  computers  is
targeted at business and professional users and is designed
to  meet  the speed, expansion and networking needs of the most demanding
Macintosh  user.   These  Power  Macintosh  products  not  only   support
virtually  all existing Macintosh applications, but can also  run  MS-DOS
and  Windows  applications when using SoftWindows (trademark) software from 
Insignia Solutions.

Macintosh LC

The   LC  family  of  personal  computers  offers  high  performance  and
competitive prices in a flexible, modular design.  LC personal  computers
are  well-suited  for  education applications  such  as  graphics,  color
presentations, multimedia, and spreadsheets.

Macintosh Performa

The Performa family of personal computers is designed to appeal to first-
time  personal  computer  users.  These products feature  all-in-one  box
computing  solutions, including software and hardware chosen specifically
with  home users in mind.  Performa products also include in-home service
and unlimited toll-free telephone support.

Macintosh PowerBook

The PowerBook family of notebook-sized personal computers is specifically
designed  for  mobile computing needs.  All PowerBook personal  computers
include  the  PowerBook Mobility Bundle, a combination of communications,
power-management,  security, compatibility,  and  entertainment  software
designed to enhance mobile computing.

Peripheral Products

The   Company  sells  associated  computer  peripherals,  including   the
ImageWriter (registered trademark),  StyleWriter (registered trademark), 
Color StyleWriter and  LaserWriter (registered trademark)  printer
families, CD-ROM and magnetic disk drives, scanners and a range of  color
and monochrome monitors.

Personal Digital-Assistant Products

The  Apple  MessagePad (trademark) 120 communications assistant  integrates  
Newton (registered trademark) technology  in  a  hand-held  communications  
device  that  intelligently assists the user in capturing, organizing and 
communicating information.

Operating System Software and Application Software

The Company's operating system software, its proprietary Macintosh system
software called Mac OS, provides Apple computers with an easy, 
consistent user  interface and built-in networking capability based on its 
AppleTalk networking standard, as well as other industry networking 
standards,  and ensures  integration  of  hardware and software.   The  
Company's  system software business group also develops and distributes 
extensions  to  the Macintosh system software, such as utilities, languages,
developer tools, and  educational software.  Claris Corporation, a wholly 
owned subsidiary of the Company, develops, publishes, and distributes 
application software in  a  variety of established personal productivity 
categories,  such  as database   management  and  graphics,  for  Macintosh
and  Windows-based systems.   Claris  also publishes and distributes software
developed  by independent developers through its Claris Clear Choice 
(trademark) labeling program. Claris  products  are distributed primarily
through independent  software resellers.

Networking and Connectivity Products

The  Company  sells workgroup server  systems  that
provide   file,  print  and  communications  services  to  varying   size
workgroups.   The  Company  also provides networking  and  communications
products  that  connect Apple systems to local area  networks,  providing
interoperability with other computers and computing environments as  well
as  the  Internet.  These computing environments include IBM's large  and
small systems and Digital Equipment Corporation's VAX, as well as systems
conforming  to  the  Open System Interconnection ("OSI")  and  Transmission
Control Protocol/Internet Protocol ("TCP/IP") standards.

On-Line Services

The  Company  is  moving forward on its new strategy of focusing  on  the
Internet  to  deliver  online solutions for  customers  in  each  of  the
Company's  markets.  In doing so, eWorld (trademark), the Company's online  
service, plans to increasingly feature Internet content,

                                        3
<PAGE>

services, and technology, along with a global electronic mail system with
news, information and other services.  This on-line service also includes
eWorld  for  Macintosh  and NewtonMail (registered trademark), eWorld's 
messaging  service  for Newton.

Markets and Distribution

The  Company's  customers are primarily in the business,  education,  and
consumer markets.  Customers are attracted to the Macintosh in particular
for a variety of reasons, including the availability of a wide variety of
application software, the reduced amount of training resulting  from  the
Macintosh's  intuitive ease of use, and the ability of the  Macintosh  to
network and communicate with other computer systems and environments.

Apple personal computers were first introduced to education customers  in
the  late 1970's.  In the United States, the Company is one of the  major
suppliers of personal computers for both elementary and secondary  school
customers, as well as for college and university customers.  The  Company
is  also  a  substantial  supplier to institutions  of  higher  education
outside of the United States.

In  the  United  States,  the Company's formal commitment  to  serve  the
federal  government began in 1986 with the formation of the Apple Federal
Systems Group.  Although the Company has contracts with a number of  U.S.
government  agencies, these contracts are not currently material  to  the
Company's overall financial condition or results of operations.

Presently,  the  Americas  represent  the  Company's  largest  geographic
marketplace.   The Apple Americas organization focuses on  the  Company's
sales,  marketing, and support efforts in the United States,  Canada  and
Latin America.  Products sold in these regions are primarily manufactured
in  the Company's facilities in California, Colorado, and Singapore,  and
distributed from facilities in California and Illinois.

Approximately  45% to 48% of the Company's revenues in recent  years  has
come   from   its   international  operations.   The  Company   has   two
international  sales  and marketing divisions, consisting  of  the  Apple
Europe  division  and  the  Apple Pacific  division.   The  Apple  Europe
division focuses on opportunities in Europe as well as in parts of Africa
and  in  the  Middle  East.   Products sold by the  Europe  division  are
manufactured  primarily in the Company's facility in Cork, Ireland.   The
Apple  Pacific  division  focuses on opportunities  in  Japan  and  Asia;
Australia  and New Zealand; and the Caribbean region.  Products  sold  by
the   Pacific  division  are  manufactured  primarily  in  the  Company's
facilities in California, Colorado and Singapore.

The   Company  distributes  its  products  through  third-party  computer
resellers,  and  is also continuing its expansion into  various  consumer
channels,  such as mass merchandise stores, consumer electronics  outlets
and  computer superstores, in response to changing industry practices and
customer  preferences.   The Company's products  are  sold  primarily  to
business  and government customers through independent resellers,  value-
added  resellers  and  systems integrators;  to  home  customers  through
independent  resellers and consumer channels; and to education  customers
through  direct  sales and independent resellers.  In  order  to  provide
products and service to its independent resellers on a timely basis,  the
Company  distributes its products through a number of Apple  distribution
and support centers.

A  summary  of the Company's Industry Segment and Geographic  Information
may  be  found  in  Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K under  the  heading
"Industry  Segment  and  Geographic Information",  which  information  is
hereby incorporated by reference.

Raw materials

Although  certain raw materials, processes, and components  essential  to
the Company's business are generally available from multiple sources, key
components  and processes currently obtained from single sources  include
certain  of  the  Company's  displays,  microprocessors,  mouse  devices,
keyboards,  disk  drives,  printers and printer components,  application-
specific  integrated  circuits ("ASICs")  and  other  custom  chips,  and
certain processes relating to construction of the plastic housing for the
Company's  computers.   Any  availability  limitations,  interruption  in
supplies, or price increases relative to these and other components could
adversely  affect  the  Company's business  and  financial  results.   In
addition, new products introduced by the Company often initially  utilize
custom  components obtained from only one source, until the  Company  has
evaluated  whether  there  is  a need for  an  additional  supplier.   In
situations  where  a component or product utilizes new  technologies  and
processes, there may be initial capacity  constraints until such time  as
the  suppliers'  yields  have  matured.   Materials  and  components  are
normally  acquired through purchase orders, as is common in the industry,
typically covering the Company's requirements for periods from 90 to  180
days.  However, the Company continues to evaluate the need for  a  supply
contract in each situation.

If  the supply of a key single-sourced material, process, or component to
the  Company  were to be delayed or curtailed, its ability  to  ship  the
related product utilizing such material, process, or component in desired
quantities  and  in  a  timely manner could be adversely  affected.   The
Company's  business  and financial performance could  also  be  adversely
affected,  depending on the time required to obtain sufficient quantities
from the original source, or to identify and obtain sufficient quantities
from  an alternate source.  The Company believes that the suppliers whose
loss to the Company could have a material adverse effect upon the

                                        4
<PAGE>

Company's  business and financial position include, at this time,  Canon,
Inc.,  General  Electric Co., Hitachi, Ltd., IBM, Motorola,  Inc.,  Sharp
Corporation,  Sony  Corporation, Texas Instruments,  Inc.,  and/or  their
United States affiliates, and VLSI Technology, Inc.  However, the Company
helps  mitigate these potential risks by working closely with  these  and
other key suppliers on product introduction plans, strategic inventories,
and coordinated product introductions.  The Company believes that most of
its  single-source suppliers, including most of the foregoing  companies,
are   reliable  multinational  corporations.   Most  of  these  suppliers
manufacture the relevant materials, processes, or components in  multiple
plants.   The  Company  further believes that its long-standing  business
relationships with these and other key suppliers are strong and  mutually
beneficial in nature.

The  Company  has  also from time to time experienced  significant  price
increases  and  limited  availability  of  certain  components  that  are
available  from multiple sources.  Any similar occurrences in the  future
could have an adverse affect on the Company's operating results.

The  Company  has  a  supply agreement with Motorola, Inc.  (see  Exhibit
10.B.12  hereto).  The agreement with Motorola continues for  five  years
from January 31, 1992 unless otherwise mutually agreed in writing by  the
parties.    The  Company  single-sources  certain  microprocessors   from
Motorola.  The  supply agreement does not obligate the  Company  to  make
minimum  purchase  commitments; however, the agreement  does  commit  the
vendor  to supply the Company's requirements of the particular items  for
the duration of the agreement.

Further discussion relating to availability and supply of components  may
be  found  under  Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K under the  subheading
"Inventory  and  Supply"  included under the heading  "Factors  That  May
Affect  Future  Results and Financial Condition,"  which  information  is
hereby incorporated by reference.

Patents, trademarks, copyrights and licenses

The Company currently holds rights to patents and copyrights relating  to
certain aspects of its computer and peripheral systems.  In addition, the
Company has registered, and/or has applied to register, trademarks in the
United  States and a number of foreign countries for "Apple",  the  Apple
silhouette  logo, the Apple color logo, "Macintosh", Newton,  the  Newton
Lightbulb  logo,  and  numerous other product trademarks.  In  1986,  the
Company  acquired  ownership  of the trademark  "Macintosh"  for  use  in
connection  with computer products.  Although the Company  believes  that
the ownership of such patents, copyrights, and trademarks is an important
factor  in its business and that its success does depend in part  on  the
ownership thereof, the Company relies primarily on the innovative skills,
technical competence, and marketing abilities of its personnel.

Because  of  technological  changes in  the  computer  industry,  current
extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents,
it  is  possible  that certain components of the Company's  products  may
unknowingly infringe existing patents of others. The Company believes the
resolution  of  any  claim of infringements would  not  have  a  material
adverse  effect on its financial condition and results of  operations  as
reported in the accompanying financial statements.  However, depending on
the amount and timing of an unfavorable resolution of any such claims  of
infringement,  it  is  possible  that the  Company's  future  results  of
operations  or  cash flow could be materially affected  in  a  particular
period.   The  Company has from time to time entered into cross-licensing
agreements with other companies.

Seasonal business

Although  the  Company  does  not consider  its  business  to  be  highly
seasonal,  it has historically experienced increased sales in  its  first
and  fourth  fiscal quarters, compared to other quarters  in  its  fiscal
year,  due to holiday demand for and calendar year-end buying of some  of
its  products.   However, past performance should  not  be  considered  a
reliable   indicator  of  the  Company's  future  revenue  or   financial
performance.

Warranty

The  Company  offers a parts and labor limited warranty on its  products.
The  warranty  period is one year from the date of purchase  by  the  end
user.   The Company also offers a 90-day warranty for Apple service parts
used  to  repair  Apple  hardware products.  In addition,  consumers  may
purchase extended service coverage on all Apple hardware products.

Customers

No customer of the Company accounted for 10% or more of net sales in each
of the fiscal years 1995, 1994, and 1993.

Backlog

In general, the Company's resellers typically purchase products on an as-
needed basis.  Resellers frequently change delivery

                                        5
<PAGE>

schedules  and  order  rates  depending on  changing  market  conditions.
Unfilled  orders (backlog) can be, and often are, canceled at will.   The
Company  attempts  to  fill orders on the requested  delivery  schedules.
However,  products may be in relatively short supply from  time  to  time
until  production volumes have reached a level sufficient to meet  demand
or  if other production or fulfillment  constraints exist.  The Company's
backlog  of  unfilled  orders decreased slightly  to  approximately  $618
million  at December 1, 1995 from $663 million at December 2, 1994.   The
Company's  backlog at December 1, 1995 consists primarily of its  higher-
end Power Macintosh products.  The Company expects that substantially all
of  its  orders in backlog at December 1, 1995 will be either shipped  or
canceled during fiscal 1996.

In  the Company's experience, the actual amount of product backlog at any
particular  time  is not a meaningful indication of its  future  business
prospects.  In particular, backlog often increases in anticipation of  or
immediately  following  introduction of new  products  because  of  over-
ordering  by  dealers anticipating shortages.  Backlog often  is  reduced
once  dealers  and  customers believe they can obtain sufficient  supply.
Because  of  the  foregoing,  as  well as  other  factors  affecting  the
Company's  backlog, backlog should not be considered a reliable indicator
of  the  Company's  future  revenue or  financial  performance.   Further
information regarding the Company's backlog may be found under  Part  II,
Item  7  of  this Annual Report on Form 10-K under  the
subheading  "Product Introductions and Transitions"  included  under  the
heading "Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition,"
which information is hereby incorporated by reference.

Competition

The  market  for the design, manufacture and sale of personal  computers,
personal digital assistants, and related software and peripheral products
is  highly  competitive.   It  continues to  be  characterized  by  rapid
technological  advances  in both hardware and software  development  that
have  substantially increased the capabilities and applications of  these
products,  and has resulted in the frequent introduction of new products.
The   principal   competitive  factors  in  this  market   are   relative
price/performance,  product  quality  and  reliability,  availability  of
software,   product  features,  marketing  and  distribution  capability,
service  and support, availability of hardware peripherals, and corporate
reputation.

Further discussion relating to the competitive conditions of the personal
computing  industry and the Company's competitive position in the  market
place  may  be  found under Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K  under  the
subheading  "Competition," included under the heading "Factors  That  May
Affect  Future  Results and Financial Condition,"  which  information  is
hereby incorporated by reference.

Research and development

Because  the  personal  computer  industry  is  characterized  by   rapid
technological advances, the Company's ability to compete successfully  is
heavily dependent upon its ability to ensure a continuing and timely flow
of  competitive  products to the marketplace.  The Company  continues  to
develop new products and technologies and to enhance existing products in
the  areas  of hardware and peripherals, system software, and  networking
and  communications. The Company's research and development  expenditures
totaled  $614  million, $564 million,  and $665 million, in fiscal  years
1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

Further  information regarding the Company's R&D expenditures for  fiscal
year  1995  is set forth in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K  under  the
heading "Operating Expenses," which information is hereby incorporated by
reference.

Environmental laws

Compliance with United States federal, state, and local laws enacted  for
the protection of the environment has to date had no material effect upon
the  Company's  capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive  position.
Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects  in
the  future based on the nature of its operations and the thrust of  such
laws,  no  assurance  can be given that such laws,  or  any  future  laws
enacted  for the protection of the environment, will not have a  material
adverse effect on the Company.

Employees

At  September 29, 1995, Apple and its subsidiaries worldwide  had  13,191
regular  employees,  and  an  additional  4,424  temporary  or  part-time
contractors and employees.

Foreign and domestic operations and geographic data

Information  regarding financial data by geographic area  and  the  risks
associated with international operations is set forth under Part II, Item
8  of  this  Form 10-K under the heading "Industry Segment and Geographic
Information",  and  under Part II, Item 7 of this  Form  10-K  under  the
subheading  "Global  Market Risks," included under the  heading  "Factors
That   May   Affect  Future  Results  and  Financial  Condition,"   which
information is hereby incorporated by reference.

                                        6
<PAGE>

Margins  on sales of Apple products in foreign countries, and on domestic
sales   of  products  that  include  components  obtained  from   foreign
suppliers,  can be adversely affected by foreign currency  exchange  rate
fluctuations  and  by international trade regulations, including  tariffs
and anti-dumping penalties.

Item 2. Properties

The  Company's  headquarters are located in Cupertino,  California.   The
Company  has  manufacturing facilities in Fountain, Colorado, Sacramento,
California, Cork, Ireland, and Singapore.  As of September 29, 1995,  the
Company  leased approximately 4.5 million square feet of space, primarily
in  the United States, and to a lesser extent, in Europe and the Pacific.
Leases  are generally for terms of five to ten years, and usually provide
renewal options for terms of up to five additional years.

The  Company  owns  its manufacturing facilities in  Fountain,  Colorado,
Cork,  Ireland, and Singapore, which total approximately 1,144,000 square
feet.    The  Company  also  owns  a  725,000  square-foot  facility   in
Sacramento,  California,  which is used as a manufacturing,  service  and
support  center.   In  addition,  the  Company  owns  the  research   and
development  facility located in Cupertino, California, and a centralized
domestic  data center in Napa, California which approximate  856,000  and
158,000  square  feet,  respectively.  Outside  the  United  States,  the
Company  owns  a  facility  in  Apeldoorn,  Netherlands,  which  is  used
primarily  for distribution, totaling approximately 265,000 square  feet,
in   addition   to  certain  other  international  facilities,   totaling
approximately 487,000 square feet.

The  Company believes that its existing facilities and equipment are well
maintained and in good operating condition.  The Company has invested  in
additional  internal  capacity and external partnerships,  and  therefore
believes  it  has  adequate manufacturing capacity  for  the  foreseeable
future.   The Company continues to make investments in capital  equipment
as needed to meet anticipated demand for its products.

Information regarding critical business operations that are located  near
major earthquake faults is set forth in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K
under  the  heading  "Factors  That May  Affect  Future  Results and 
Financial Condition," which information is hereby incorporated by reference.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

Information regarding legal proceedings is set forth in Part II,  Item  8
of  this Form 10-K under the subheading "Litigation", included under  the
heading  "Commitments  and Contingencies", which  information  is  hereby
incorporated by reference.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of the Company's fiscal year ended September 29, 1995.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The  following  sets  forth certain information regarding  the  executive
officers of the Company as of December 1, 1995:

Michael  H.  Spindler*, President and Chief Executive Officer  (age  53).
Mr.  Spindler  joined  the  Company  as  European  Marketing  Manager  in
September  1980,  was  promoted to Vice President  and  General  Manager,
Europe  in  January  1984,  was  named Vice President,  International  in
February  1985, and was promoted to Senior Vice President,  International
Sales  and Marketing in November 1986.  Mr. Spindler was appointed Senior
Vice  President,  International in January 1988, Senior  Vice  President,
Apple Europe Division in April 1988, and was promoted to President, Apple
Europe  in  August 1988.  While remaining President of Apple Europe,  Mr.
Spindler was also named Senior Vice President of Apple Computer, Inc.  in
February  1989.   In  January 1990, Mr. Spindler was  promoted  to  Chief
Operating  Officer and Executive Vice President of Apple Computer,  Inc.,
and  in  November  1990  was elected President.   In  January  1991,  Mr.
Spindler  was elected a member of the Company's Board of Directors.   Mr.
Spindler was appointed to the position of Chief Executive Officer in June
1993.  Mr. Spindler is also director of Bertelsmann AG.

James  J.  Buckley*, Senior Vice President and President, Apple  Americas
(age  45).   Mr. Buckley joined the Company as K-12 and Higher  Education
Sales  Manager in May 1985 and was promoted to Director of the same group
in January 1986.  In May 1986, Mr. Buckley was named Area Director, North
Central Area, appointed Vice President, Central Operations in April 1988,
was  promoted to Vice President, Northern Operations in May 1991, and was
appointed  Vice President and General Manager, Higher Education  Division
in  April  1992.   In  January 1994, Mr. Buckley was  named  Senior  Vice
President  and  President,  Apple USA, in  October  1995,  was  named
President,  Apple  North  America,  and  in  November  1995,  was   named
President, Apple Americas.

John  Floisand*, Senior Vice President and President, Apple Pacific  (age
51).   Mr. Floisand joined the Company in May 1986, as Director of Sales,
Apple Computer, Ltd., United Kingdom.  In October 1988, Mr. Floisand  was
named Director of Sales

                                        7
<PAGE>

Development,  Customer Services and Operations, Apple  Pacific  Division,
and  in  February 1992 was promoted to Vice President, Sales Development,
Customer  Services and Operations, Apple Pacific Division.  Mr.  Floisand
was named Vice President and President, Apple Pacific in August 1992.  In
October  1994,  Mr.  Floisand was promoted to Senior Vice  President  and
President, Apple Pacific.

G.  Frederick Forsyth*, Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations  (age
51).   Mr.  Forsyth joined the Company in June 1989, as  Vice  President,
Worldwide Manufacturing, Apple Products Division.  Mr. Forsyth was  named
Senior  Vice President, Worldwide Manufacturing in November 1990, and  in
April  1991 he was promoted to Senior Vice President and General Manager,
Macintosh   Systems  Division.   In  June  1993,  Mr.   Forsyth   assumed
responsibility for Worldwide Operations.  Prior to joining  the  Company,
Mr.  Forsyth  was  employed  by Digital Equipment  Corporation  ("DEC"),  a
manufacturer  of  networked  computer systems and  associated  peripheral
equipment,  from November 1979 to June 1989, where he served  in  various
managerial  positions, most recently as Group Manager,  Low  End  Systems
Manufacturing from November 1986 to June 1989.

Marco Landi* , Senior Vice President and President, Apple Europe (age 51)
Mr. Landi joined the Company in March 1995, as Senior Vice President and
President of Apple Europe to assume responsibility for all of Apple's
business operations throughout Europe, Africa and the Middle East. Prior
to joining the Company, Mr. Landi was employed by Texas Instruments ("TI")
Europe as President of TI Europe, Middle East, and Africa, responsible
for all of TI's business operations in those regions.  Prior to that
assignment, Mr. Landi served for two years as President of TI Asia.

David   C.   Nagel*,  Senior  Vice  President,  Worldwide  Research   and
Development  (age  50).  Dr. Nagel joined the Company in  June  1988,  as
Manager   of  the  Applications  Technology  Group  within  the  Advanced
Technology Group.  Dr. Nagel was promoted to Manager of User Technologies
in  June 1988, Director of User Technologies in October 1989, and finally
Vice  President  of  the Advanced Technology Group in  April   1990.   In
December  1991,  Dr.  Nagel  was promoted to Senior  Vice  President  and
General  Manager,  Advanced  Technology  Group  and  named  Senior   Vice
President  and General Manager, Macintosh Software Architecture  Division
in  January  1993.   In July 1993, he was named General  Manager  of  the
AppleSoft Division.  Dr. Nagel was named Senior Vice President, Worldwide
Research and Development in  April 1995.

Kevin J. Sullivan*, Senior Vice President, Human Resources (age 54).  Mr.
Sullivan  joined  the  Company in April 1987, as  Vice  President,  Human
Resources.   In  October 1988, Mr. Sullivan was promoted to  Senior  Vice
President, Human Resources.

Jeanne Seeley, Vice President, Finance and Corporate Controller (age 46).
Ms.  Seeley joined the Company in October 1981, as the Controller for the
Peripherals  Division.  In June 1985, Ms. Seeley was promoted  to  Senior
Controller  for the Operations Group, was named Director  of  Finance  in
July  1986,  and was  promoted to Senior Director of Finance  in  January
1989.   In  November  1990, Ms. Seeley was promoted  to  Vice  President,
Finance.   Ms. Seeley was appointed Vice President, Finance and Corporate
Controller in May 1992.

Edward  B.  Stead*, Vice President, General Counsel, and  Secretary  (age
48).   Mr.  Stead  joined  the Company in September  1988,  as  Associate
General  Counsel.   He  was named Vice President,  General  Counsel,  and
Assistant Secretary of the Company in June 1989.  In September 1993,  Mr.
Stead assumed the additional position of Secretary.


*Information  regarding employment agreements between  certain  executive
officers   and  the  Company  is  set  forth  in  the  section   entitled
"Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Change in Control Arrangements"
and "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Arrangements with Executive
Officers"  of the Company's Proxy Statement, which information is  hereby
incorporated by reference.















                                        8
<PAGE>

PART II

Item    5.   Market  for  the  Registrant's  Common  Equity  and  Related
Stockholder Matters

The  Company's common stock is traded on the over-the-counter market  and
is  quoted  on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol AAPL,  on  the
Tokyo  Stock Exchange under the symbol APPLE, and on the Frankfurt  Stock
Exchange under the symbol APCD.  Options are traded on the Chicago  Board
Options  Exchange and the American Stock Exchange.  Information regarding
the  Company's high and low reported closing prices for its common  stock
and the number of shareholders of record is set forth in Part II, Item  8
of  this  Form  10-K  under  the  heading "Selected  Quarterly  Financial
Information  (Unaudited)," which information is  hereby  incorporated  by
reference.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data

The  following selected financial information has been derived  from  the
audited  Consolidated  Financial Statements.  The information  set  forth
below is not necessarily indicative of results of future operations,  and
should  be read in conjunction with "Management's Discussion and Analysis
of  Financial  Condition and Results of Operations" and the  consolidated
financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this
Form 10-K.

                            (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

ANNUAL                                                             
Five fiscal years ended         1995    1994      1993     1992       1991
September 29, 1995
                                                               
                                                                        
Net sales                   $ 11,062 $ 9,189   $ 7,977   $ 7,086   $ 6,309
Net income                  $    424 $   310   $    87   $   530   $   310
                                  
Earnings per common and                                                  
common equivalent share     $   3.45 $  2.61   $  0.73   $  4.33   $  2.58
                                       
Cash dividends declared    
per common share            $   0.48 $  0.48   $  0.48   $  0.48   $  0.48

Common and common                                                        
equivalent shares used in                                               
the calculations of        
earnings per share
 (in thousands)              123,047  118,735   119,125  122,490   120,283

Cash, cash equivalents,                                                  
and short-term            
investments                 $   952  $ 1,258   $    892  $ 1,436   $   893

Total assets                $ 6,231  $ 5,303   $  5,171  $ 4,224   $ 3,494

Long-term debt              $   303  $   305   $      7  $    18   $    18
                                    
Deferred tax liabilities    $   702  $   671   $    630  $   611   $   510
                                     























                                        9
<PAGE>

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the
consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.  All information is
based on the Company's fiscal calendar.

      (Tabular information: Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

Results of Operations              1995   Change     1994   Change     1993
                                                                  
Net sales                       $ 11,062     20%  $  9,189     15%  $  7,977
Gross margin                    $  2,858     22%  $  2,343    -14%  $  2,728
  Percentage of net sales          25.8%             25.5%             34.2%
Research and development        $    614      9%  $    564    -15%  $    665
  Percentage of net sales           5.6%              6.1%              8.3%
Selling, general and      
  administrative                $  1,583     14%  $  1,384    -15%  $  1,632
  Percentage of net sales          14.3%             15.1%             20.5%
Operating expenses (excluding   
  restructuring costs)          $  2,197     13%  $  1,948    -15%  $  2,297
  Percentage of net sales          19.9%             21.2%             28.8%
Restructuring costs             $   (23)    -82%  $  (127)   -140%  $    321
  Percentage of net sales         (0.2%)            (1.4%)              4.0%
Interest and other income       
 (expense),  net                $   (10)     55%  $   (22)   -175%  $     30
Net income                      $    424     37%  $    310    258%  $     87
Earnings per share              $   3.45     32%  $   2.61    258%  $   0.73
                                      
Net Sales

Net sales increased $1,873 million, or 20%, in fiscal 1995, compared with
an  increase  of $1,212 million, or 15%, in fiscal 1994.  The  net  sales
growth  in  1995  over  1994 was primarily due to a combination  of  unit
growth,  higher average selling prices, and changes in currency  exchange
rates.  Total Macintosh computer unit sales increased approximately  15%
over  the  prior year.  This unit sales growth resulted principally  from
strong  sales of the Company's Power Macintosh products, which accounted
for over 70% of total unit shipments at the end of the fourth quarter  of
1995,  compared with 26% in the comparable period of 1994, and from sales
of  newer  product  offerings  within the  Performa  family  of  desktop
personal  computers.  This unit growth was partially offset by  declining
unit  sales  of  certain of the Company's older product  offerings.   The
average  aggregate  revenue  per Macintosh unit  increased  12%  in  1995
compared  with 1994, primarily due to a shift in product mix  toward  the
Company's newer products and products with multimedia configurations.

The  net sales growth in 1994 over 1993 was primarily due to two factors:
unit  sales  growth and, to a lesser extent, an increase in  the  average
aggregate revenue per Macintosh computer unit.  Total Macintosh  computer
unit  sales  increased  16% over the prior year.   This  growth  resulted
principally  from  strong  sales  of the Company's  new  Power  Macintosh
products  and  of  newer product offerings within the Macintosh  Performa
family of desktop personal computers and, to a lesser extent, from  sales
of  products within the PowerBook family of notebook personal computers.
This  growth was partially offset by declining unit sales in  certain  of
the  Company's more established products and older product versions.  The
average   aggregate  revenue  per  Macintosh  unit  increased   slightly,
primarily due to fluctuations in product mix throughout the year, despite
pricing  actions  undertaken by the Company  in  response  to  continuing
industrywide pricing pressures.

International net sales grew 25% from 1994 to 1995, primarily  reflecting
strong  net  sales growth in the Pacific region, particularly Japan,  and
favorable  changes in currency exchange rates.  Net sales grew moderately
in  Europe over the same period.  International net sales grew  17%  from
1993 to 1994, primarily reflecting strong net sales growth in the Pacific
region, particularly Japan.  International net sales represented  48%  of
net  sales in 1995 compared with 46% of net sales in 1994 and 45% of  net
sales in 1993.  Domestic net sales grew 16% over the prior year, compared
with  an  increase  of  14% in 1994 over 1993, primarily  resulting  from
strong growth in the education and consumer markets.

In general, the Company's resellers typically purchase products on an as-
needed  basis.  Resellers frequently change delivery schedules and  order
rates   depending   on  changing  market  conditions.   Unfilled   orders
("backlog")  can  be,  and  often are, canceled  at  will.   The  Company
attempts  to  fill orders on the requested delivery schedules.   However,
products  may  be  in  relatively short supply from time  to  time  until
production volumes have reached a level sufficient to meet demand  or  if
other production or fulfillment constraints exist.  The Company's backlog
was  approximately $618 million at December 1, 1995, consisting primarily
of the Company's higher-end Power Macintosh products.

                                       10
<PAGE>

In  the Company's experience, the actual amount of product backlog at any
particular  time  is not a meaningful indication of its  future  business
prospects.  In particular, backlog often increases in anticipation of  or
immediately   following   introduction  of  new   products   because   of
overordering by dealers anticipating shortages.  Backlog often is reduced
once  dealers  and  customers believe they can obtain sufficient  supply.
Because  of  the  foregoing,  as  well as  other  factors  affecting  the
Company's  backlog, backlog should not be considered a reliable indicator
of  the  Company's future revenue or financial performance.  For  further
information  regarding  the  Company's  backlog,  refer  to  page  13  of
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition  and  Results
of  Operations under the heading "Factors That May Affect Future  Results
and Financial Condition."

Gross Margin

Gross  margin represents the difference between the Company's  net  sales
and  its cost of goods sold.  The amount of revenue generated by the sale
of products is influenced principally by the price set by the Company for
its products relative to competitive products.  The cost of goods sold is
based primarily on the cost of components and, to a lesser extent, direct
labor  costs.   The  type and cost of components included  in  particular
configurations of the Company's products (such as memory and disk drives)
are   often   directly  related  to  the  need  to  market  products   in
configurations   competitive   with   those   of   other   manufacturers.
Competition  in  the personal computer industry is intense,  and  in  the
short  term,  frequent changes in pricing and product  configuration  are
often  necessary  in  order  to remain competitive.   Accordingly,  gross
margin  as  a percentage of net sales can be significantly influenced  in
the  short  term  by  actions undertaken by the Company  in  response  to
industrywide competitive pressures.

Gross margin increased both in amount and as a percentage of net sales in
1995 compared with 1994.  The increase in gross margin as a percentage of
net  sales  was primarily a result of a shift in product mix  toward  the
Company's  newer, high-margin products, which included  strong  sales  of
certain  products within the Company's Power Macintosh family of personal
computers and its entry-level Macintosh Performa family.

The increase in gross margin levels was affected favorably by changes  in
foreign  currency  exchange rates as a result of  a  weaker  U.S.  dollar
relative to certain foreign currencies  in 1995 compared with 1994.   The
Company's  operating strategy and pricing take into  account  changes  in
exchange  rates over time; however, the Company's results  of  operations
can  be  significantly  affected in the short  term  by  fluctuations  in
foreign currency exchange rates.

Gross  margin  in  1994 declined as a percentage of net sales  from  1993
levels.  The downward trend in gross margin as a percentage of net  sales
was  primarily a result of pricing and promotional actions undertaken  by
the  Company  in response to industrywide competitive pricing  pressures.
Gross  margin was also affected somewhat adversely by changes in  foreign
currency exchange rates as a result of a stronger U.S. dollar relative to
certain foreign currencies in 1994 compared with 1993.  Results from  the
Company's ongoing foreign currency hedging activities offset a portion of
this adverse foreign currency impact on gross margin.

Although  the Company's gross margin percentage was 25.8% in 1995,  gross
margin  as  a  percentage of net sales declined to 20.7%  in  the  fourth
quarter  of 1995, primarily due to aggressive pricing actions and product
mix  issues  related to component availability and delays in new  PowerPC
processor-based product production.  It is anticipated that gross margins
will  continue  to remain under significant pressure and  are  likely  to
remain  comparable to the level reported for the fourth quarter  of  1995
due  to  a  variety of factors, including continued industrywide  pricing
pressures,  increased competition, particularly in Japan, and  compressed
product life cycles.

Research and Development

Research  and  development expenditures increased in amount  during  1995
when  compared with 1994, primarily due to higher project- and headcount-
related  spending, as the Company continues to invest in the  development
of   new  products  and  technologies.   The  decrease  in  research  and
development  expenditures during 1994 compared with  1993  reflected  the
results  of the Company's restructuring actions aimed at reducing  costs,
including  product  development expenditures.  Research  and  development
expenditures  as  a  percentage of net sales have continued  to  decrease
since  1993  as a result of revenue growth during 1994 and 1995,  coupled
with  the  Company's  continuing  efforts  to  focus  its  research   and
development project spending in an efficient manner.

The  Company  believes that continued focused investment in research  and
development is critical to its future growth and competitive position  in
the marketplace, and is directly related to continued, timely development
of new and enhanced products.

Selling, General and Administrative

Selling,  general and administrative expenses increased  in  amount,  but
decreased as a percentage of net sales, in 1995 compared with 1994.  This
increase  in expense was primarily a result of increased advertising  and
channel  marketing program spending as the Company continued its  efforts
to  expand  its  market share.  Although the Company  has  increased  its
selling  and marketing expenses in an effort to expand its market  share,
there  can be no assurance that such an increase in spending will  result
in a corresponding

                                       11
<PAGE>

increase  in  market share.  The decrease as a percentage  of  net  sales
since  1993 is primarily a result of revenue growth during 1994 and 1995,
combined  with  the Company's ongoing efforts to manage  total  operating
expense growth.

In 1994, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased in amount
and as a percentage of net sales compared with 1993, primarily because of
lower   employee-related  and  facilities  costs   resulting   from   the
restructuring actions taken in the third quarter of 1993.  Revenue growth
in  1994  also  contributed  to  the decrease  in  selling,  general  and
administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales.

The  Company  will continue to face the challenge of managing  growth  in
selling,  general and administrative expenses relative  to  gross  margin
levels,  particularly in light of the Company's expectation of  continued
pressure on gross margins and continued competitive pressures worldwide.

Restructuring Costs

For  information regarding the Company's restructuring actions, refer  to
pages 29 - 30 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net

Interest  and  other income (expense), net, decreased to $10  million  in
expense  in  1995 from $22 million in expense in 1994.  This $12  million
favorable change is comprised of $48 million in interest and other income
attributable to higher average cash balances, higher interest rates,  and
interest  rate hedging gains, offset in part by a $36 million unfavorable
variance  related  to  realized and unrealized foreign  exchange  hedging
losses  and foreign exchange hedging costs.  Market volatility and higher
foreign currency balances account for the increased hedging cost.

In  1994,  interest  and other income (expense), net,  decreased  to  $22
million in expense from $30 million of income in 1993, resulting in a $52
million  unfavorable change.  Higher interest rates  and  larger  average
borrowing  balances  used  to  fund  working  capital  needs  served   to
significantly increase interest expense, and accounted for $28 million of
the  $52 million change during 1994.  Other factors contributing to  this
variance included interest income, which was higher in 1993 than in  1994
primarily  due  to  a  $15  million  interest  payment  received   on   a
nonrecurring income tax refund from the Internal Revenue Service in 1993,
and  interest  income  from the Company's interest rate  risk  management
program,  which  contributed  $6 million in 1993,  and  reduced  interest
income by $7 million in 1994.

For more information regarding the Company's strategy and accounting for
financial and other derivative instruments, refer to pages 26 -  28 of
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Provision for Income Taxes            1995   Change  1994   Change  1993
                                                                          
Provision for income taxes          $  250     32%  $ 190    258%   $ 53
Effective tax rate                     37%            38%            38%

The Company's effective tax rate decreased to 37% in 1995 compared with a
rate  of  38%  in  1994  and 1993.  For additional information  regarding
income  taxes,  refer  to  pages 31 - 32 of  the  Notes  to  Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Factors That May Affect Future Results and Financial Condition

The  Company's  future  operating results  and  financial  condition  are
dependent  on the Company's ability to successfully develop, manufacture,
and  market technologically innovative products in order to meet  dynamic
customer  demand  patterns.  Inherent in this process  are  a  number  of
factors  that  the Company must successfully manage in order  to  achieve
favorable future operating results and financial condition.

Product Introductions and Transitions

Due  to  the  highly  volatile nature of the personal computer  industry,
which  is  characterized by dynamic customer demand  patterns  and  rapid
technological  advances, the Company frequently introduces  new  products
and  product  enhancements.  The success of new product introductions  is
dependent  on  a  number  of factors, including  market  acceptance,  the
Company's   ability   to  manage  the  risks  associated   with   product
transitions,  the availability of application software for new  products,
the  effective  management of inventory levels in line  with  anticipated
product   demand,  and  the  manufacturing  of  products  in  appropriate
quantities  to meet anticipated demand.  Accordingly, the Company  cannot
determine the ultimate effect that new products will have on its sales or
results of operations.

                                       12
<PAGE>

In  1994, the Company introduced Power Macintosh, a new line of Macintosh
computers  based  on  a new PowerPC family of RISC microprocessors.   The
Company's  results of operations and financial condition may be adversely
affected if it is unable to successfully complete the transition  of  its
lines of personal computers and servers from the Motorola 68000 series of
microprocessors  to  the PowerPC microprocessor.  The  success  of  this
ongoing  transition will depend on the Company's ability to  continue  to
sell products based on the Motorola 68000 series of microprocessors while
continuing  to  gain market acceptance of the new PowerPC processor-based
products,  to successfully manage inventory levels of both product  lines
simultaneously, and to continue to coordinate the timely development  and
distribution  by  independent software vendors of new  "native"  software
applications   specifically  designed  for  the  PowerPC  processor-based
products.

The rate of product shipments immediately following introduction of a new
product  is not necessarily an indication of the future rate of shipments
for  that product, which depends on many factors, some of which  are  not
under  the  control  of the Company.  These factors may  include  initial
large  purchases by a small segment of the user population that tends  to
purchase new technology prior to its acceptance by the majority of  users
("early adopters"); purchases in satisfaction of pent-up demand by  users
who  anticipated  new  technology and as a result deferred  purchases  of
other products; and overordering by dealers who anticipate shortages  due
to the aforementioned factors.  The preceding may also be offset by other
factors,  such  as  the  deferral of purchases by many  users  until  new
technology  is accepted as "proven" and for which commonly used  software
products are available; and the reduction of orders by dealers once  they
believe  they  can  obtain  sufficient supply of  product  previously  in
backlog.

Backlog  is  often volatile after new product introductions  due  to  the
aforementioned   demand   factors,  often  increasing   coincident   with
introduction, and then decreasing once dealers and customers believe they
can obtain sufficient supply of product.

The  measurement  of  demand  for newly introduced  products  is  further
complicated  by  the  availability of different  product  configurations,
which  may  include various types of built-in peripherals  and  software.
Configurations may also require certain localization (such  as  language)
for  various  markets  and, as a result, demand in  different  geographic
areas  may  be a function of the availability of third-party software  in
those  localized  versions.  For example, the availability  of  European-
language versions of software products manufactured by U.S. producers may
lag  behind the availability of U.S. versions by a quarter or more.  This
may result in lower initial demand for the Company's new products outside
the  United  States,  even  though localized versions  of  the  Company's
products may be available.

Competition

The personal computer industry is highly competitive and continues to  be
characterized by consolidations in the hardware and software  industries,
aggressive  pricing practices, and downward pressure  on  gross  margins.
For  example,  in  Japan, other companies have begun to initiate  extreme
competitive  actions in order to gain market share, and as a result,  the
Company  has  implemented incremental pricing and promotional activities.
The  Company's  results of operations and financial  condition  could  be
adversely affected should the Company be unable to effectively manage the
impact of industrywide pricing pressures and downward pressures on  gross
margins.

The  Company's future operating results and financial condition may  also
be  affected  by  the  Company's ability to offer  customers  competitive
technologies  while effectively managing the impact on  inventory  levels
and   the   potential   for  customer  confusion   created   by   product
proliferation.   The  Company's future operating  results  and  financial
condition  may also be affected by overall demand for personal  computers
and general customer preferences for one platform over another or one set
of product features over another.

On  November 7, 1994, the Company reached an agreement with IBM and 
Motorola, Inc. on a new hardware reference  platform for the PowerPC 
microprocessor that  is  intended  to deliver  a  much wider range of 
operating system and application  choices for  computer customers.  As a 
result of this agreement, the  Company  is moving  forward  with its efforts 
to make the Macintosh operating  system available on the common platform.  
In line with its efforts, on  November 13, 1995, the Company, IBM, and 
Motorola, Inc. announced the availability of  the "PowerPC Platform," which 
is a set of specifications that defines a  "unified"  personal  computer  
architecture  and  combines  the  Power Macintosh  platform and the PC 
environment.  Accordingly,  the  Company's future  operating results and 
financial condition may be affected by  its ability  to  continue  to  
implement this  agreement  and  certain  other collaboration agreements, 
and to manage the associated competitive risk.

The  Company  is currently the primary maker of hardware  that  uses  the
Macintosh  operating system, and it has a minority market  share  in  the
personal computer market, which is dominated by makers of computers  that
run  the MS-DOS (registered trademark) and Microsoft Windows (trademark) 
operating systems.  The Company's future  operating results and financial 
condition may be affected by  its ability  to increase market share in its 
personal computer business.   As part  of  its  efforts  to  increase 
overall market  share,  the  Company announced  the  licensing  of the 
Macintosh  operating  system  to  other personal  computer vendors in 
January 1995, and several vendors currently sell product that utilize the 
Macintosh operating system.  The success of the  Company's  efforts  to  
increase its overall  market  share  through licensing  of the Macintosh 
operating system will depend in part  on  the Company's  ability  to manage 
the risks associated  with  competing  with companies producing Macintosh 
OS-based computer systems.  Accordingly,  the  Company  cannot determine

                                       13
<PAGE>

the  ultimate  effect  that licensing  of  the Macintosh operating system 
will have  on  its  product pricing  and  unit  sales  or  future  operating 
results  and  financial condition.  The Company believes that licensing the 
operating system will result  in a broader installed base on which software 
vendors can develop and  provide technical innovations for the Macintosh 
platform.   However, there  can  be no assurance that the installed base 
will be broadened  by the licensing of the operating system or that licensing
will result in an increase  in  the number of application software titles or 
the  rate  at which  vendors  will bring to market application software  
based  on  the Macintosh operating system.

The   Company's  principal  competitor  in  producing  operating   system
software,  Microsoft  Corporation, is a large, well-financed  corporation
which  has  a  dominant  position in various  segments  of  the  personal
computer  software  industry.   In  August  1995,  Microsoft  Corporation
released  Windows 95, another of its operating system  offerings.   As  a
result of the introduction of Windows 95, the Company has taken and  will
continue  to  take  steps  to address the additional  challenges  to  and
competitive  pressures  on its efforts in developing  and  marketing  the
Company's products.  Accordingly, the Company's future operating  results
and financial condition could be adversely affected should the Company be
unable   to  effectively  manage  the  competitive  pressure  and   other
challenges presented by the introduction of Windows 95.

Certain  of  the  Company's personal computer  products  are  capable  of
running application software designed for the MS-DOS or Windows operating
systems ("Cross-Platform Products"), through software emulation of  Intel
Corporation microprocessor chips by use of software specifically designed
for  the  Company's  products, either those based on the  Motorola  68000
series  of  microprocessors or those based on the PowerPC microprocessor.
The  Company  has also introduced products that include both  the  RISC-
based  PowerPC 601 microprocessor and the 486 DX2/66 microprocessor, which
enable  users  to  switch between the Macintosh and DOS or Windows  computing
environments.

The  Company  currently  supplies customers who  purchase  Cross-Platform
Products  capable of running the MS-DOS or Windows 3.1 operating system with
operating  system  software under a licensing agreement  with  Microsoft.
This  license  agreement expires on December 31, 1995 (the  "Old  License
Agreement").   The Company has attempted to license Windows  95  software
from  Microsoft  but has been unable to do so because  of  the  Company's
unwillingness to consent to Microsoft's demand under Microsoft's proposed
license  agreement (the "New License Agreement") that the  Company  agree
not to sue Microsoft if Microsoft infringes any of the Company's patents.
Microsoft  has also informed the Company that it will not renew  the  Old
License  Agreement unless the Company accepts the New License  Agreement.
Accordingly,  unless an appropriate licensing agreement is reached,  upon
the  expiration of the Old License Agreement, the Company will be  unable
to  supply customers with any of Microsoft's operating systems on  Cross-
Platform  Products.   Although  customers could  obtain  copies  of  such
software from other sources, the Company is unable to predict the  effect
of  such a situation on the demand for Cross-Platform Products.  Although
Cross-Platform Products represented only a small portion of the Company's
unit  sales during 1995, the Company is unable to predict the  effect  of
such a situation on the Company's future operating results.

Decisions  by customers to purchase the Company's personal computers,  as
opposed  to  MS-DOS  or Windows-based systems, are  often  based  on  the
availability  of  third-party software for particular applications.   The
Company   believes  that  the  availability  of  third-party  application
software for the Company's hardware products depends in part on the third-
party  developers'  perception and analysis of the relative  benefits  of
developing  such software for the Company's products versus software  for
the  larger MS-DOS and Windows market.  This analysis is based on factors
such  as  the  relative  market  share of  the  Company's  products,  the
anticipated  potential  revenue that may be  earned,  and  the  costs  of
developing such software products.  Microsoft Corporation is an important
developer   of   application  software  for   the   Company's   products.
Accordingly,  Microsoft's interest in producing application software  for
the Company's products may be influenced by Microsoft's perception of its
interests as an operating system vendor.

The  Company's ability to produce and market competitive products is also
dependent on the ability of IBM and Motorola, Inc., the suppliers of  the
PowerPC  RISC  microprocessor for certain of the Company's  products,  to
continue  to supply to the Company microprocessors that produce  superior
price/performance results compared with those supplied to  the  Company's
competitors  by  Intel Corporation, the developer  and  producer  of  the
microprocessors  used  by most personal computers using  the  MS-DOS  and
Windows operating systems.  IBM produces personal computers based on  the
Intel  microprocessors as well as on the PowerPC microprocessor,  and  is
also the developer of OS/2, a competing operating system to the Company's
Macintosh operating system.  Accordingly, IBM's interest in supplying the
Company  with  improved  versions of microprocessors  for  the  Company's
products  may  be influenced by IBM's perception of its  interests  as  a
competing manufacturer of personal computers and as a competing operating
system vendor.

The  Company's future operating results and financial condition may  also
be   affected  by  the  Company's  ability  to  successfully  expand  and
capitalize  on its investments in other markets, such as the markets  for
Internet services and personal digital assistant (PDA) products.




                                       14
<PAGE>

Global Market Risks

A   large   portion  of  the  Company's  revenue  is  derived  from   its
international  operations.   As a result, the  Company's  operations  and
financial  results  could  be  significantly  affected  by  international
factors,  such  as  changes in foreign currency exchange  rates  or  weak
economic  conditions  in  the  foreign  markets  in  which  the   Company
distributes its products.  When the U.S. dollar strengthens against other
currencies,  the  U.S.  dollar  value  of  non-U.S.  dollar-based   sales
decreases.  When the U.S. dollar weakens, the U.S. dollar value  of  non-
U.S. dollar-based sales increases. Correspondingly, the U.S. dollar value
of non-U.S. dollar-based costs increases when the U.S. dollar weakens and
decreases  when the U.S. dollar strengthens.  Overall, the Company  is  a
net  receiver  of  currencies other than the U.S. dollar  and,  as  such,
benefits  from  a weaker dollar and is adversely affected by  a  stronger
dollar  relative to major currencies worldwide.  Accordingly, changes  in
exchange rates, and in particular a strengthening of the U.S. dollar, may
negatively affect the Company's consolidated sales and gross margins  (as
expressed in U.S. dollars).

To  mitigate the short-term impact of fluctuating currency exchange rates
on  the  Company's non-U.S. dollar-based sales, product procurement,  and
operating  expenses,  the Company regularly hedges its  non-U.S.  dollar-
based  exposures.  Specifically, the Company enters into foreign exchange
forward  and  option  contracts to hedge firmly  committed  transactions.
Currently,  hedges of firmly committed transactions do not extend  beyond
one  year.   The Company also purchases foreign exchange option contracts
to  hedge  certain other probable, but not firmly committed transactions.
Hedges  of  probable, but not firmly committed transactions currently  do
not  extend  beyond one year.  To reduce the costs associated with  these
ongoing  foreign  exchange hedging programs, the Company  also  regularly
sells  foreign  exchange option contracts and enters into  certain  other
foreign  exchange transactions.  All foreign exchange forward and  option
contracts  not  accounted  for  as  hedges,  including  all  transactions
intended  to  reduce  the  costs associated with  the  Company's  foreign
exchange hedging programs, are carried at fair value and are adjusted  on
each  balance  sheet date for changes in exchange rates.   Refer  to  the
Financial  Instruments  footnote on  pages  26  -  28  of  the  Notes  to
Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.

While the Company is exposed with respect to fluctuations in the interest
rates  of  many  of  the  world's leading industrialized  countries,  the
Company's  interest income and expense is most sensitive to  fluctuations
in  the general level of U.S. interest rates.  In this regard, changes in
U.S.  interest  rates affect the interest earned on the  Company's  cash,
cash equivalents, and short-term investments as well as interest paid  on
its short-term borrowings and long-term debt.  To mitigate the impact  of
fluctuations  in  U.S.  interest rates,  the  Company  has  entered  into
interest  rate swap and option transactions.  Certain of these swaps  are
intended  to better match the Company's floating-rate interest income  on
its  cash,  cash equivalents, and short-term investments with the  fixed-
rate  interest  expense on its long-term debt.  The Company  also  enters
into  interest rate swap and option transactions in order to diversify  a
portion  of  the Company's exposure away from fluctuations in  short-term
U.S.  interest  rates.  These instruments may extend the  Company's  cash
investment horizon up to a maximum effective duration of three years.

To  ensure  the  adequacy  and effectiveness  of  the  Company's  foreign
exchange  and  interest rate hedge positions, as well as to  monitor  the
risks   and  opportunities  of  the  nonhedge  portfolios,  the   Company
continually  monitors its foreign exchange forward and option  positions,
and  its  interest rate swap and option positions on a stand-alone  basis
and  in  conjunction with its underlying foreign currency-  and  interest
rate-related  exposures, respectively, from both  an  accounting  and  an
economic  perspective.   However, given the  effective  horizons  of  the
Company's risk management activities, there can be no assurance that  the
aforementioned  programs will offset more than a portion of  the  adverse
financial  impact resulting from unfavorable movements in either  foreign
exchange  or  interest rates.  In addition, the timing of the  accounting
for recognition of gains and losses related to mark-to-market instruments
for any given period may not coincide with the timing of gains and losses
related  to the underlying economic exposures, and as such, may adversely
affect  the  Company's  operating results and  financial  position.   The
Company generally does not engage in leveraged hedging.

Inventory and Supply

The  Company's ability to satisfy demand for its products may be  limited
by  the  availability of key components.  The Company believes  that  the
availability  from  suppliers  to  the  personal  computer  industry   of
microprocessors  and  ASICs presents the most significant  potential  for
constraining  the  Company's  ability  to  produce  products.    Specific
microprocessors  manufactured by Motorola, Inc.  and  IBM  are  currently
available  only  from single sources, while some advanced microprocessors
are currently in the early stages of ramp-up for production and thus have
limited  availability.  The Company and other producers in  the  personal
computer  industry  also  compete for other semiconductor  products  with
other  industries  that  have  experienced  increased  demand  for   such
products,  due  to either increased consumer demand or increased  use  of
semiconductors  in  their  products  (such  as  the  cellular  phone  and
automotive  industries).  Finally, the Company uses some components  that
are  not  common to the rest of the personal computer industry (including
certain  ASICs).   Continued  availability of  these  components  may  be
affected if producers were to decide to concentrate on the production  of
common  components  instead of custom components.   Such  product  supply
constraints and corresponding increased costs could adversely affect  the
Company's  future  operating results and financial  condition,  including
loss of market share.


                                       15
<PAGE>

The  Company's future operating results and financial condition may  also
be adversely affected by the Company's ability to manage inventory levels
and  lead  times  required  to obtain components  in  order  to  be  more
responsive  to  short-term  shifts  in  customer  demand  patterns.    In
addition,  if  anticipated unit sales growth for new and current  product
offerings  is  not  realized, the Company's  results  of  operations  and
financial condition could be adversely affected.

Marketing and Distribution

A  number  of uncertainties may affect the marketing and distribution  of
the  Company's  products.   Currently, the  Company's  primary  means  of
distribution  is  through third-party computer resellers.   However,  the
Company is continuing its expansion into various consumer channels,  such
as  mass-merchandise stores, consumer electronics outlets,  and  computer
superstores.   The  Company's  business and financial  results  could  be
adversely affected if the financial condition of these resellers  weakens
or  if  resellers  within consumer channels decide  not  to  continue  to
distribute the Company's products.

Other Factors

The  majority  of the Company's research and development activities,  its
corporate  headquarters,  and  other  critical  business  operations  are
located  near major seismic faults. The Company's operating  results  and
financial  condition could be materially adversely affected in the  event
of a major earthquake.

The  Company  is  currently  in  the process  of  replacing  its  current
transaction   systems  (which  include  order  management,  distribution,
manufacturing, and finance) with a single integrated system  as  part  of
its  ongoing  effort to increase operational efficiency.   The  Company's
future  operating  results  and financial condition  could  be  adversely
affected  if  it  is  unable  to implement  and  effectively  manage  the
transition to this new integrated system.

In  April  1995,  the  Company  announced  a  companywide  reorganization
designed  to  more  closely align the Company's organizational  structure
with  the  Company's  business strategy of  placing  increased  focus  on
customer  needs  and expanding its presence in the home,  education,  and
business  markets.   In November 1995, the Company  announced  a  further
companywide reorganization to accelerate the implementation of its market
segmentation strategy.  The Company's reorganization will result  in  the
consolidation   of   its   sales,  marketing,  and   customer   solutions
organization  into three geographic business units, namely, the  Americas,
Europe,  and Japan and Asia.  The Company's future operating results  and
financial  condition  could  be adversely  affected  by  its  ability  to
effectively manage the transition to these new organizational structures.
Although  it  is  uncertain at this time, the Company  may  incur  future
restructuring charges as a result of these reorganizations.

Historically, the Company has experienced increased sales  in  its  first
and  fourth fiscal quarters due to holiday demand for and calendar  year-
end  buying  of  some  of its products.  As of the date  of  this  Annual
Report,  published  reports  relating to the  U.S.  economy  indicated  a
potentially  unfavorable year-end buying season.   Any  general  economic
slowdown could adversely affect demand for the Company's products,  which
could  adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial
condition.

Because of the foregoing factors, as well as other factors affecting  the
Company's  operating  results  and financial  condition,  past  financial
performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future
performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate
results  or  trends  in  future  periods.   In  addition,  the  Company's
participation  in a highly dynamic industry often results in  significant
volatility of the Company's common stock price.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The  Company's financial position with respect to cash, cash equivalents,
and  short-term investments, net of short-term borrowings,  decreased  to
$491  million  at September 29, 1995, from $966 million at September  30,
1994.

Less  cash  was  generated  by operations in  1995  compared  with  1994,
primarily  as a result of growth in inventory levels and an  increase  in
accounts  receivable.   Inventory levels grew during  1995  in  order  to
support anticipated demand in the first quarter of 1996 for the Company's
new  products.  Accounts receivable also increased, reflecting the higher
sales levels achieved during 1995, primarily toward the end of the fourth
quarter.

Cash  used  for operations in 1995 was partially offset by cash generated
from  higher  sales  and accounts payable levels.   The  increased  sales
levels  were driven by aggressive pricing and promotional actions coupled
with  strong  demand for the Company's PowerPC processor-based  products.
Accounts  payable  increased as a result of the growth in  inventory  and
production levels and longer payment terms negotiated with vendors.

More  cash  was  generated  by operations in  1994  compared  with  1993,
primarily due to a significant decrease in inventory levels, as  well  as
increased  sales  levels.  The significant decrease in  inventory  levels
during 1994 resulted from improved inventory

                                       16
<PAGE>

management, higher 1994 sales levels attributable to various pricing  and
promotional actions, and strong sales of new product inventory which  had
been  built  up  in preparation for the introduction of Power  Macintosh.
Profit  levels  improved  as  operating expenses  decreased  due  to  the
Company's implementation of restructuring actions initiated in the  third
quarter of 1993.

Cash  generated by operations in 1994 was partially offset by  cash  used
for  restructuring and an increase in accounts receivable.  The  increase
in  accounts  receivable reflected an increase in sales  levels  achieved
during 1994.  The balance of accrued restructuring costs decreased as the
restructuring actions initiated in the third quarter of 1993 continued to
be  implemented.  In addition, in the third quarter of 1994, the  Company
lowered  its estimate of the costs associated with the restructuring  and
recorded  an  adjustment  that  increased income  by  $127  million  ($79
million,  or  $0.66  per share, after taxes).  This adjustment  primarily
reflected  the  modification or cancelation of certain  elements  of  the
Company's  original restructuring plan because of changing  business  and
economic conditions that made certain elements of the restructuring  plan
financially less attractive than originally anticipated.

Excluding short-term investments, net cash used for investments increased
in  1995  compared  with 1994 and 1993 levels.  Net  cash  used  for  the
purchase of property, plant, and equipment totaled $159 million in  1995,
and  was  primarily made up of increases in manufacturing  machinery  and
equipment.   The  Company anticipates that capital expenditures  in  1996
will remain relatively consistent with 1995 expenditure levels.

The  Company  leases the majority of its facilities and  certain  of  its
equipment  under noncancelable operating leases.  In 1995,  rent  expense
under all operating leases was approximately $127 million.  The Company's
future  lease  commitments are discussed on  page  34  of  the  Notes  to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Short-term  borrowings  at September 29, 1995,  were  approximately  $169
million  higher  than  at  September  30,  1994.  These  borrowings  were
primarily made to fund expected working capital growth in certain markets
worldwide.   In  general,  the  Company's short-term  borrowings  reflect
borrowings  made under its commercial paper program and short-term  loans
from  certain  commercial banks.  In particular, Apple  Japan,  Inc.  and
Apple Computer BV (Netherlands), subsidiaries of the Company, held short-
term  borrowings from several banks, totaling approximately $199  million
and $262 million, respectively, at September 29, 1995.

The  Company's  balance  of long-term debt remained  relatively  constant
during  1995.  In 1994, $300 million aggregate principal amount  of  6.5%
unsecured notes were issued under an omnibus shelf registration statement
filed   with   the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission.   This   shelf
registration was for the registration of debt and other securities for an
aggregate  offering  amount of $500 million.   The  notes  were  sold  at
99.925%  of par, for an effective yield to maturity of 6.51%.  The  notes
pay  interest semi-annually and mature on February 15, 2004.   The  6.51%
fixed  rate  was  subsequently effectively converted to a  floating  rate
through ten-year interest rate swaps based on the three-month U.S. dollar
London  Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR").  To mitigate  the  credit  risk
associated  with  these ten-year swap transactions, the  Company  entered
into  margining  agreements  with  its third-party  bank  counterparties.
Margining under these agreements does not start until 1997.  Furthermore,
these agreements would require the Company to post margin only if certain
credit  risk thresholds were exceeded.  It is anticipated that any margin
the  Company  may  be required to post in the future  would  not  have  a
material adverse effect on the Company's liquidity position.

The  Company expects that it will continue to incur short- and  long-term
borrowings  from time to time to finance U.S. working capital  needs  and
capital  expenditures,  because a substantial portion  of  the  Company's
cash,  cash  equivalents, and short-term investments is held  by  foreign
subsidiaries,  generally  in U.S. dollar-denominated  holdings.   Amounts
held  by  foreign  subsidiaries would be subject to U.S. income  taxation
upon   repatriation  to  the  United  States;  the  Company's   financial
statements  fully provide for any related tax liability on  amounts  that
may be repatriated.  Refer to the Income Taxes footnote on pages 31 -  32
of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.

The  Company  believes that its balances of cash, cash  equivalents,  and
short-term investments, together with funds generated from operations and
short-  and long-term borrowing capabilities, will be sufficient to  meet
its operating cash requirements on a short- and long-term basis.












                                        
                                       17
<PAGE>

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data


                                                              
                                                              
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                     Page
                                                                 
Financial Statements:                                            
Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors               19
Consolidated Balance Sheets at September 29, 1995 and           
  September 30, 1994                                            20
Consolidated Statements of Income for the three fiscal years    
  ended September 29, 1995                                      21
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the         
  three fiscal years ended September 29, 1995                   22
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the three fiscal      
  years ended September 29, 1995                                23
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                      24
Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)            36
Financial Statement Schedules:                                   
For the three fiscal years ended September 29, 1995              
   Schedule II - Valuation and qualifying accounts             S-1
                                                                 
All other schedules have been omitted, since the required information  is
not present or is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission
of  the schedule, or because the information required is included in  the
Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto.



































                                       18
<PAGE>

REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

The Shareholders and Board of Directors of Apple Computer, Inc.

We  have  audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets  of  Apple
Computer, Inc. as of September 29, 1995 and September 30, 1994,  and  the
related consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity, and cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended September 29, 1995.
Our  audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the
Index  to  Consolidated Financial Statements.  These financial statements
and  schedule  are the responsibility of the Company's management.   Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and
schedule based on our audits.

We  conducted  our audits in accordance with generally accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain  reasonable assurance about whether the financial  statements  are
free  of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on  a  test
basis,  evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures  in the financial
statements.   An audit also includes assessing the accounting  principles
used  and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating
the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In  our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to  above
present  fairly,  in  all  material respects, the consolidated  financial
position of Apple Computer, Inc. at September 29, 1995 and September  30,
1994,  and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash  flows
for  each  of the three years in the period ended September 29, 1995,  in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.  Also,  in  our
opinion,  the  related financial statement schedule, when  considered  in
relation  to  the  basic financial statements taken as a  whole,  present
fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.





                                                    /s/ Ernst & Young LLP
                                                        Ernst & Young LLP
                                                                         
San Jose, California
October 16, 1995






























                                       19
<PAGE>

Consolidated Balance Sheets
                                        
                                                       (Dollars in millions)

September 29, 1995, and September 30, 1994              1995            1994
                                                                   
Assets:                                                       
Current assets:                                               
  Cash and cash equivalents                          $   756         $ 1,203
  Short-term investments                                 196              55
  Accounts receivable, net of allowance for
  doubtful accounts of $87 ($91  in 1994)              1,931           1,581
  Inventories:
    Purchased parts                                      841             469
    Work in process                                      291             207
    Finished goods                                       643             412
                                                       1,775           1,088
  Deferred tax assets                                    251             293
  Other current assets                                   315             256
    Total current assets                               5,224           4,476
Property, plant, and equipment:                                                
  Land and buildings                                     504             484
  Machinery and equipment                                638             573
  Office furniture and equipment                         145             158
  Leasehold improvements                                 205             237
                                                       1,492           1,452
  Accumulated depreciation and amortization            (781)           (785)
    Net property, plant, and equipment                   711             667
Other assets                                             296             160
                                                     $ 6,231         $ 5,303
Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity:                                          
Current liabilities:                                                           
  Short-term borrowings                              $   461         $   292
  Accounts payable                                     1,165             882
  Accrued compensation and employee benefits             131             137
  Accrued marketing and distribution                     206             178
  Other current liabilities                              362             455
    Total current liabilities                          2,325           1,944
Long-term debt                                           303             305
Deferred tax liabilities                                 702             671
Commitments and contingencies                                                  
Shareholders' equity:                                                          
  Common stock, no par value; 320,000,000 shares
   authorized;122,921,601 shares   issued and            
   outstanding in 1995 (119,542,527 shares in 1994)      398             298
  Retained earnings                                    2,464           2,096
  Other                                                   39            (11)
    Total shareholders' equity                         2,901           2,383
                                                     $ 6,231         $ 5,303
                                                                               
See accompanying notes.








                                       20
<PAGE>

Consolidated Statements of Income
                                        
                              (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

                                                             
Three fiscal years ended                  
September 29, 1995                          1995          1994          1993
                                                             
Net sales                             $   11,062    $    9,189   $     7,977
Costs and expenses:                                                       
  Cost of sales                            8,204         6,846         5,249
  Research and development                   614           564           665
  Selling, general and                    
   administrative                          1,583         1,384         1,632
  Restructuring costs                       (23)         (127)           321
                                          10,378         8,667         7,867
Operating income                             684           522           110
Interest and other income                   
 (expense), net                             (10)          (22)            30
Income before income taxes                   674           500           140
Provision  for income taxes                  250           190            53
Net income                            $      424    $      310   $        87
Earnings  per common and common                                            
 equivalent share                     $     3.45    $     2.61   $      0.73
Common and common equivalent                                               
 shares used in the calculations
 of earnings per share                                         
 (in thousands)                          123,047       118,735       119,125

See accompanying notes.
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                       21
<PAGE>

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
                                                                           
                   (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

                                                                        Total
                             Common Stock                              Share-
                            Shares              Retained             holders'
                      (in Thousands)  Amount    Earnings     Other     Equity
                                                                       
                                                            
Balance at September 25,     
 1992                       118,479   $  282    $ 1,905     $  --     $ 2,187
Common stock issued under                                            
 stock option and purchase                                           
 plans, including related      
 tax benefits                 2,693      102         --        --         102
Repurchase of common stock  (5,025)    (180)       (93)        --       (273)
Cash dividends of $0.48         
 per common share                --       --       (56)        --        (56)
Accumulated translation         
 adjustment                      --       --         --      (20)        (20)
Net income                       --       --         87        --          87
Balance at September 24,    
 1993                       116,147      204      1,843      (20)       2,027
Common stock issued under                                            
 stock option and purchase                                           
 plans, including related   
 tax benefits                 3,396       94         --        --          94
Cash dividends of $0.48       
 per common share                --       --       (57)        --        (57)
Accumulated translation       
 adjustment                      --       --         --         9           9
Net income                       --       --        310        --         310
Balance at September 30,     
 1994                       119,543      298      2,096       (11)      2,383
Common stock issued under                                            
 stock option and purchase                                           
 plans, including related    
 tax benefits                 3,379      100         --        --         100
Cash dividends of $0.48      
 per common share                --       --       (58)        --        (58)
Accumulated translation       
  adjustment                     --       --         --         6           6
Change in unrealized gains                                           
 (losses) on available-for-     
 sale securities                 --       --         --        44          44
Net income                       --       --        424        --         424
Other                            --       --          2        --           2
Balance at September 29,   
 1995                       122,922   $  398    $ 2,464     $  39     $ 2,901
                                                            
                                        
See accompanying notes.
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                       22
<PAGE>

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
                                                        (Dollars in millions)
                                        
                                                                          
Three fiscal years ended                  
September 29, 1995                          1995          1994          1993

Cash and cash equivalents,             
 beginning of the period                 $ 1,203        $  676        $  498
Operations:                                                               
  Net income                                 424           310            87
  Adjustments to reconcile net                                              
    income to cash generated by
     (used for) operations:                                             
    Depreciation and amortization            127           168           166
    Net book value of property,                                             
     plant, and equipment retirements          6            11            13
  Changes in assets and liabilities:
   Accounts receivable                     (350)         (199)         (295)
   Inventories                             (687)           418         (927)
   Deferred tax assets                        42          (25)          (69)
   Other current assets                     (59)            34          (96)
   Accounts payable                          283           139           316
   Accrued restructuring costs              (47)         (250)           203
   Other current liabilities                (10)            90          (68)
   Deferred tax liabilities                   31            41            19
        Cash  generated by (used        
         for) operations                   (240)           737         (651)
                                                                          
Investments:                                                              
  Purchase of short-term                
   investments                           (1,672)         (312)       (1,432)
  Proceeds from sale of short-term         
   investments                             1,531           474         2,153
  Purchase of property, plant, and        
   equipment                               (159)         (160)         (213)
  Other                                    (102)           (4)          (15)
        Cash generated by (used          
         for) investment activities        (402)           (2)           493
                                                                          
Financing:                                                                
  Increase (decrease) in short-term       
   borrowings                                169         (531)           639
  Increase (decrease) in long-term           
   borrowings                                (2)           297          (11)
  Increases in common stock, net of           
   related tax benefits                       86            82            85
  Repurchase of common stock                  --            --         (273)
  Cash dividends                            (58)          (56)          (56)
  Other                                       --            --          (48)
         Cash generated by (used           
          for ) financing activities         195         (208)           336
                                                                           
Total cash generated (used)                (447)           527           178
Cash and cash equivalents, end of      
 the period                               $  756       $ 1,203        $  676
                                                                          
Supplemental cash flow disclosures:
 Cash paid during the year for:                                          
     Interest                             $   49       $    34        $   12
     Income taxes, net                    $  188       $    46        $  226

Schedule of non-cash transactions:
 Tax benefit from stock options           $   15       $    12        $   17
  
                                                                          
See accompanying notes.
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                       23
<PAGE>

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Basis of Presentation
The  consolidated  financial statements include  the  accounts  of  Apple
Computer, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the Company).  Intercompany accounts
and transactions have been eliminated.  The Company's fiscal year-end  is
the last Friday in September.

Revenue Recognition
The  Company  recognizes  revenue  at  the  time  products  are  shipped.
Provisions  are  made currently for estimated product returns  and  price
protection  that may occur under Company programs.  Historically,  actual
amounts recorded for product returns and price protection have not varied
significantly from estimated amounts.

Warranty Expense
The  Company  provides  currently for the  estimated  cost  that  may  be
incurred under product warranties when products are shipped.

Advertising Costs
Advertising  costs,  except  for  costs associated  with  direct-response
advertising, are charged to expense the first time the advertising  takes
place.    The  costs of direct-response advertising are  capitalized  and
amortized over the period during which future benefits are expected to be
received.

Foreign Currency
Gains  and  losses  resulting  from  foreign  currency  translation   are
accumulated  as  a separate component of shareholders' equity  until  the
foreign  entity  is sold or liquidated. Gains and losses  resulting  from
foreign  currency transactions are included in the consolidated statement
of income.

Financial Instruments
Investments
All highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less  at
the  date  of purchase are considered to be cash equivalents; investments
with  maturities  between three and twelve months are  considered  to  be
short-term investments.  There are no investments with maturities greater
than  twelve months.  A substantial portion of the Company's  cash,  cash
equivalents,  and short-term investments is held by foreign  subsidiaries
and is generally based in U.S. dollar-denominated holdings.  Amounts held
by  foreign  subsidiaries would be subject to U.S. income  taxation  upon
repatriation  to  the  United States; the Company's financial  statements
fully  provide  for  any related tax liability on  amounts  that  may  be
repatriated,  aside from undistributed earnings that are intended  to  be
indefinitely invested.

Effective  October  1,  1994,  the Company adopted  Financial  Accounting
Standard No. 115 ("FAS 115"), "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt
and  Equity  Securities."   In  accordance with  FAS  115,  prior  period
financial  statements  have not been restated to reflect  the  change  in
accounting  principle.   The cumulative effect  of  the  change  was  not
material  to shareholders' equity as of October 1, 1994.  Under FAS  115,
debt  securities that a company has both the positive intent and  ability
to  hold to maturity are carried at amortized cost.  Debt securities that
a  company  does  not  have the positive intent and ability  to  hold  to
maturity  and all marketable equity securities are classified  as  either
available-for-sale or trading and are carried at fair value.   Generally,
unrealized holding gains and losses on securities classified as available-
for-sale are reported as a component of shareholders' equity.  Unrealized
holding gains and losses on securities classified as trading are included
in earnings.

The  Company's  cash  equivalents consist primarily  of  U.S.  Government
securities, Euro-dollar deposits, and commercial paper with maturities of
three  months  or  less at the date of purchase.  Short-term  investments
consist  principally of Euro-dollar deposits and  commercial  paper  with
maturities  between  three and twelve months.  The  Company's  marketable
equity  securities consist of securities issued by U.S. corporations  and
are included in "Other assets" on the accompanying balance sheet.  As  of
September   29,   1995,   the  Company's  cash  equivalents,   short-term
investments,   and  marketable  equity  securities  are  classified   and
accounted  for  as  available-for-sale  and  are  generally  held   until
maturity.

Financial Instruments with Off-Balance-Sheet Risk
In the ordinary course of business and as part of the Company's asset and
liability   management,  the  Company  enters  into  various   types   of
transactions that involve contracts and financial instruments  with  off-
balance-sheet  risk.   These instruments are entered  into  in  order  to
manage  financial  market  risk,  primarily  interest  rate  and  foreign
exchange risk.  The Company enters into these financial instruments  with
major international financial institutions utilizing over-the-counter  as
opposed  to  exchange traded instruments.  The Company does not  hold  or
transact   in  financial  instruments  for  other  than  risk  management
purposes.

                                        
                                       24
<PAGE>

Gains  and  losses on accounting hedges of existing assets or liabilities
are  included in the carrying amounts of those assets or liabilities  and
are  ultimately  recognized in income as part of those carrying  amounts.
Gains  and  losses  related  to  qualifying  accounting  hedges  of  firm
commitments  or  anticipated  transactions  are  also  deferred  and  are
recognized  in  income  or as adjustments of carrying  amounts  when  the
hedged  transaction occurs.  Realized and unrealized gains and losses  on
interest  rate  and  foreign exchange contracts that do  not  qualify  as
accounting hedges are recognized quarterly as a component of interest and
other income (expense), net.

The  Company  monitors its interest rate and foreign  exchange  positions
daily  based  on  applicable  and  commonly  used  pricing  models.   The
correlation  between the changes in the fair value of hedging instruments
and  the  changes in the underlying hedged items is assessed periodically
over  the  life  of  the  hedged instrument.  In the  event  that  it  is
determined that a hedge is ineffective, the Company recognizes in  income
the change in market value of the instrument beginning on the date it was
no longer an effective hedge.

Interest Rate Derivatives
The  Company enters into interest rate derivative transactions, including
interest rate swaps and options, with financial institutions in order  to
better  match  the Company's floating-rate interest income  on  its  cash
equivalents  and  short-term  investments with  the  fixed-rate  interest
expense  of  its  long-term debt.  These instruments  are  also  used  to
diversify  a portion of the Company's exposure away from fluctuations  in
short-term  U.S.  interest  rates.   The  Company  may  also  enter  into
interest  rate  contracts that are intended to reduce  the  cost  of  the
interest rate risk management program.

Foreign Currency Instruments
The  Company  enters into foreign exchange forward and  option  contracts
with   financial  institutions  primarily  to  protect  against  currency
exchange risks associated with certain firmly committed and certain other
probable,  but not firmly committed transactions.  The Company's  foreign
exchange  risk management policy requires it to hedge a majority  of  its
existing  material foreign exchange transaction exposures.  However,  the
Company may not hedge certain foreign exchange transaction exposures that
are  immaterial either in terms of their minimal U.S. dollar value  or  in
terms of their high correlation with the U.S. dollar.

Probable,  but not firmly committed transactions comprise  sales  of  the
Company's products in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.  A  majority
of  these  non-U.S.  dollar-based sales are made  through  the  Company's
subsidiaries in Europe, Asia (particularly Japan), Canada, and Australia.
The  Company  also purchases foreign exchange option contracts  to  hedge
certain  other  probable,  but  not firmly committed  transactions.   The
Company  also  sells  foreign  exchange option  contracts,  in  order  to
partially finance the purchase of foreign exchange option contracts  used
to hedge both firmly committed and certain other probable, but not firmly
committed  transactions.   In addition, the  Company  enters  into  other
foreign  exchange  transactions, which are intended to reduce  the  costs
associated  with  its  foreign exchange risk  management  programs.   The
duration  of  foreign exchange hedging instruments,  whether  for  firmly
committed   transactions  or  for  probable,  but  not  firmly  committed
transactions, currently does not exceed one year.

For  further information regarding the Company's accounting treatment  of
its investments and other financial and derivative instruments, refer  to
pages 26 - 28 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Income Taxes

The  income  tax  provisions for 1995 and 1994 have  been  determined  in
accordance with statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 109  ("FAS
109"),  "Accounting  for Income Taxes," whereby deferred  tax  assets  and
liabilities   reflect  the  future  income  tax  effects   of   temporary
differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of  existing
assets  and  liabilities and their respective tax  bases.   Deferred  tax
assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates that apply to
taxable  income  in  the years in which those temporary  differences  are
expected  to  be  recovered or settled.   The  Company  adopted  FAS  109
effective  the first day of fiscal 1994 on a prospective basis,  and  the
financial statements of years ended prior to 1994 have not been restated.
The cumulative effect of the change was not material.  Prior to 1994, the
Company  accounted for income taxes under the provisions of  APB  Opinion
No.  11,  which  recognized  deferred taxes  for  the  effect  of  timing
differences  between pretax accounting income and taxable income.   Under
the  deferred  method  of  APB Opinion No. 11, deferred  taxes  were  not
adjusted for subsequent changes in tax rates.

U.S.  income taxes have not been provided on a cumulative total  of  $395
million  of  undistributed earnings of certain of the  Company's  foreign
subsidiaries.   It is intended that these earnings will  be  indefinitely
invested  in  operations  outside  of  the  United  States.   It  is  not
practicable to determine the income tax liability that might be  incurred
if  these  earnings were to be distributed.  Except for such indefinitely
invested  earnings,  the Company provides for federal  and  state  income
taxes currently on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries.

Earnings per Share
Earnings  per  share  is computed using the weighted  average  number  of
   common and dilutive common equivalent shares attributable

                                       25
<PAGE>

to  stock  options  outstanding during the period.   Loss  per  share  is
computed  using the weighted average number of common shares  outstanding
during the period.

Inventories
Inventories  are  stated  at the lower of cost (first-in,  first-out)  or
market.   If  the  cost  of the inventories exceeds their  market  value,
provisions are made currently for the difference between the cost and the
market value.

Property, Plant, and Equipment
Property,  plant,  and  equipment is stated at  cost.   Depreciation  and
amortization  is computed by use of the declining balance  and  straight-
line methods over the estimated useful lives of the assets.

Stock-Based Compensation
The  Company  has  not  elected early adoption  of  Financial  Accounting
Standard  No. 123 ("FAS 123"), "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation."
FAS  123 becomes effective beginning with the Company's first quarter  of
fiscal  year  1997, and will not have a material effect on the  Company's
financial position or results of operations.  Upon adoption of  FAS  123,
the  Company will continue to measure compensation expense for its stock-
based  employee  compensation  plans using  the  intrinsic  value  method
prescribed  by  APB  Opinion  No.  25, "Accounting  for  Stock  Issued  to
Employees"  and  will provide pro forma disclosures  of  net  income  and
earnings  per share as if the fair value-based method prescribed  by  FAS
123 had been applied in measuring compensation expense.

Reclassifications
Certain  prior  year  amounts  on  the Consolidated  Balance  Sheets  and
Consolidated  Statements  of  Cash Flows and  the  Industry  Segment  and
Geographic  Information and Income Taxes footnotes have been reclassified
to conform to the current year presentation.

Financial Instruments

Investments
The   following   table   summarizes  the  Company's   available-for-sale
securities as of September 29, 1995:
                                                                     
                                                        (In millions)
                                                                 
                                                 Gross       Gross  Estimated
                                 Amortized  Unrealized  Unrealized       Fair
                                      Cost       Gains      Losses      Value
                                                                  
                                                                      
U.S. Treasury securities          
 and obligations of U.S.                
 government agencies                $   232      $  --     $   --     $   232
U.S. corporate debt securities          140         --         --         140
Foreign government securities           456          2(A)      --         458
   Total included in cash and cash     
    equivalents                     $   828      $   2     $   --     $   830
                                                                       
U.S. corporate debt securities      $    48      $  --     $   --     $    48
Foreign government securities           146         --         --         146
   Total included in short-term      
    investments                     $   194      $  --     $   --     $   194
                                                                      
Equity securities                   $     1      $  42     $   --     $    43
Total included in other assets      $     1      $  42     $   --     $    43
                                             
                                                                      
  Total                             $ 1,023      $  44     $   --     $ 1,067
                                            
                                                                      
(A)   The  $2  million represents gross unrealized gains on  interest  rate
hedging transactions.

Gross unrealized holding gains or losses on available-for-sale securities
are  recorded  as  a component of shareholders' equity, and  include  any
unrealized gains and losses on interest rate contracts accounted  for  as
hedges  against the underlying securities.  Of the $42 million  of  gross
unrealized gains related to equity securities, approximately $40  million
relates to securities that are restricted from sale until February  1996.
The  gross realized gains recorded to earnings on sales of available-for-
sale  securities were $1.5 million in 1995.  There were no gross realized
losses recorded to earnings on sales of available-for-sale securities  in
1995.    The   cost  of  securities  sold  is  based  on   the   specific
identification method.

Interest Rate Derivatives and Foreign Currency Instruments
The table on page 27 shows the notional principal, fair value, and credit
risk amounts of the Company's interest rate derivative and

                                       26
<PAGE>

foreign currency instruments as of September 29, 1995, and September  30,
1994.   The  notional principal amounts for off-balance-sheet instruments
provide one measure of the transaction volume outstanding as of year end,
and  do  not represent the amount of the Company's exposure to credit  or
market  loss.  The credit risk amount shown in the table below represents
the  Company's  gross  exposure to potential  accounting  loss  on  these
transactions  if  all counterparties failed to perform according  to  the
terms  of  the  contract,  based on then-current  currency  exchange  and
interest rates at each respective date.  The Company's exposure to credit
loss  and market risk will vary over time as a function of interest rates
and currency exchange rates.

The  estimates  of fair value are based on applicable and  commonly  used
pricing  models  using  prevailing financial  market  information  as  of
September  29, 1995, and September 30, 1994.  In certain instances  where
judgment is required in estimating fair value, price quotes were obtained
from  several  of  the  Company's  counterparty  financial  institutions.
Although the table below reflects the notional principal, fair value, and
credit  risk amounts of the Company's interest rate and foreign  exchange
instruments, it does not reflect the gains or losses associated with  the
exposures  and  transactions that the interest rate and foreign  exchange
instruments are intended to hedge.  The amounts ultimately realized  upon
settlement  of these financial instruments, together with the  gains  and
losses  on  the  underlying  exposures,  will  depend  on  actual  market
conditions during the remaining life of the instruments.

                                                              (In millions)

                                      1995                     1994
                            -----------------------   -----------------------
                            Notional   Fair  Credit   Notional   Fair  Credit
                           Principal  Value    Risk  Principal  Value    Risk
                                             Amount                    Amount
                                                  
Transactions Qualifying as                                         
 Accounting Hedges
                                                                          
Interest rate instruments                                                 
  Swaps                      $  450   $  (7)   $  2    $  669   $ (40)     --
  Interest rate collars      $  105      --(A)   --(A)     --       --     --
  Sold options               $  150      --(A)   --        --       --     --
                                          
Foreign exchange instruments                                      
  Spot / Forward contracts   $1,211   $  16    $ 23    $2,385   $ (23)  $  15
  Purchased options          $1,441   $  32    $ 32    $1,510   $   17  $  21
  Sold options                   --      --      --    $  302   $  (1)     --
                                
                                                                          
Transactions Other Than                                                   
 Accounting Hedges
                                                                          
Interest rate instruments                                                 
     Swaps                   $  10      --(A)    --        --       --     --
     Sold options            $ 100    $  (1)     --    $  148      --(A)   --
                                
Foreign exchange instruments                                             
  Spot/Forward contracts        --       --      --    $  300      --(A)  --(A)
  Purchased options          $3,046   $ 134    $134    $1,600    $  32  $  32
  Sold options               $6,082   $ (83)     --    $5,511    $ (45)    --

                                                                          
(A) Fair value is less than $0.5 million.

The  interest rate swaps shown above generally require the Company to pay
a  floating interest rate based on the three- or six-month U.S. dollar  LIBOR
and  receive a fixed rate of interest without exchanges of the underlying
notional amounts.  Maturity dates for interest rate swaps currently range
from  one  to ten years.  At September 29, 1995, and September 30,  1994,
interest  rate  swaps  classified  as receive-fixed  swaps  had  weighted
average receive rates of 6.38% and 5.89%, respectively.  Weighted average
pay  rates on these swaps were 5.88% and 6.52% at September 29, 1995, and
September 30, 1994, respectively.  Interest rate option contracts require
the  Company  to make payments should certain interest rates either  fall
below or rise above predetermined levels.

Interest  rate  collars limit the Company's exposure to  fluctuations  in
short-term  interest rates by locking in a range of  interest  rates.  An
interest  rate collar is a no-cost structure that consists of a purchased
option and a sold option. The Company receives a payment when the three-month
LIBOR  falls below predetermined levels, and makes a payment when the three-
month  LIBOR  rises  above  predetermined levels.  The  entire  structure
generally qualifies as an accounting hedge.

All  interest  rate option contracts outstanding at September  29,  1995,
expire within three years.

Interest rate contracts not accounted for as hedges are carried  at  fair
value with gains and losses recorded currently in income as a

                                       27
<PAGE>

component of interest and other income (expense), net.  Unrealized  gains
and  losses on interest rate contracts that are designated and  effective
as hedges are deferred and recognized in income in the same period as the
hedged   transaction.   Unrealized  losses  on  such  agreements  totaled
approximately  $9  million and $40 million at  September  29,  1995,  and
September  30, 1994, respectively, primarily reflecting the  net  present
value  of  unrealized  losses  on  the  ten-year  swap  contracts,  which
effectively  convert the Company's fixed-rate ten-year debt to  floating-
rate debt.

The  foreign exchange forward contracts not accounted for as  hedges  are
carried  at  fair  value  and are adjusted each balance  sheet  date  for
changes in exchange rates, and the adjustment is recognized in income  at
that  time.   Unrealized  gains and losses on  foreign  exchange  forward
contracts  that are designated and effective as hedges are  deferred  and
recognized  in  income  in  the same period as the  hedged  transactions.
Deferred  gains and losses on such agreements at September 29, 1995,  and
September  30,  1994,  were  immaterial.  All  foreign  exchange  forward
contracts expire within one year.

Purchased  foreign  exchange  option contracts  that  qualify  for  hedge
accounting  treatment are reported on the balance sheet  at  the  premium
cost,  which is amortized over the life of the option.  Unrealized  gains
and losses on these option contracts are deferred until the occurrence of
the  hedged  transaction  and recognized as a  component  of  the  hedged
transaction.    Deferred  gains  and  losses  on  such  agreements   were
immaterial  at  September  29,  1995, and  September  30,  1994.   As  of
September 29, 1995, maturity dates for purchased foreign exchange  option
contracts ranged from one to twelve months.

Purchased and sold foreign exchange option contracts that do not  qualify
for  hedge accounting treatment are carried at fair value and,  as  such,
are  adjusted  each  balance sheet date for changes  in  exchange  rates.
Gains and losses associated with these financial instruments are recorded
currently in income.  As of September 29, 1995, maturity dates for  these
sold option contracts ranged from one to six months.

The  Company  monitors its interest rate and foreign  exchange  positions
daily  based  on  applicable  and  commonly  used  pricing  models.   The
correlation  between the changes in the fair value of hedging instruments
and  the  changes in the underlying hedged items is assessed periodically
over  the  life  of  the  hedged instrument.  In the  event  that  it  is
determined that a hedge is ineffective, the Company recognizes in  income
the change in market value of the instrument beginning on the date it was
no longer an effective hedge.

Fair Values of Other Financial Instruments
The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of the Company's other financial
instruments are as follows:
                                                               (In millions)

                                          1995                   1994
                                 Carrying      Fair     Carrying       Fair
                                   Amount     Value       Amount      Value

Cash and cash equivalents          $ 756      $ 756     $ 1,203     $ 1,203
Short-term investments             $ 196      $ 196     $    55     $    55
Short-term borrowings              $ 461      $ 461     $   292     $   292
Long-term debt:                                                      
  Ten-year unsecured notes         $ 300      $ 289     $   300     $   259
  Other                            $   3      $   3     $     5     $     5
                                                                  
                                                                     
Short-term  investments are carried at cost plus accrued interest,  which
approximates  fair  value.  The carrying amount of short-term  borrowings
approximates  their fair value due to their short-term  maturities.   The
fair  value  of  the ten-year unsecured notes is based  on  their  listed
market value as of September 29, 1995.

Concentrations of Credit Risk

The  Company  distributes  its products principally  through  third-party
computer   resellers   and  various  education  and  consumer   channels.
Concentrations  of  credit  risk with respect to  trade  receivables  are
limited  because  of  flooring arrangements for selected  customers  with
third-party  financing companies and because the Company's customer  base
consists  of large numbers of geographically diverse customers  dispersed
across  several  industries.   As such, the Company  generally  does  not
require collateral from its customers.

The   counterparties  to  the  agreements  relating  to   the   Company's
investments and foreign exchange and interest rate instruments consist of
a number of major international financial institutions.  To date, no such
counterparty has failed to meet its financial obligations to the Company.
The  Company  does  not  believe  that  there  is  significant  risk   of
nonperformance  by  these counterparties because the Company  continually
monitors its positions and the credit ratings of such counterparties, and
limits the financial

                                       28
<PAGE>

exposure  and the number of agreements and contracts it enters into  with
any  one  party.  The Company generally does not require collateral  from
counterparties, except for margin agreements associated with the ten-year
interest  rate  swaps on the Company's long-term debt.  To  mitigate  the
credit risk associated with these ten-year swap transactions, the Company
entered   into   margining   agreements   with   its   third-party   bank
counterparties.   Margining under these agreements does not  start  until
1997.   Furthermore, these agreements would require the  Company  or  the
counterparty  to post margin only if certain credit risk thresholds  were
exceeded.

Advertising Costs

There  were  no direct-response advertising costs reported as  assets  at
September  29,  1995,  and September 30, 1994.  Advertising  expense  was
$204.7  million, $158.2 million, and $153.4 million for 1995,  1994,  and
1993, respectively.

Borrowings
                                                              
Short-Term Borrowings                                       (In millions)
                                                             
                                                        1995         1994
                                                              
Commercial paper                                       $  --        $  90
Notes payable to banks                                   461          202
                                                       $ 461        $ 292
                                                                         
The  weighted  average interest rates for Japanese yen-denominated  notes
payable  to  banks at September 29, 1995, and September  30,  1994,  were
approximately 2.2% and 2.6%, respectively.  The weighted average interest
rate for U.S. dollar-denominated notes payable to banks at September  29,
1995, was approximately 6.2%.  The Company had no U.S. dollar-denominated
notes  payable  to  banks at September 30, 1994.   The  weighted  average
interest rate for commercial paper borrowings at September 30, 1994,  was
approximately 5.0%.  Interest expense on short-term borrowings was  $20.4
million,  $24.9  million,  and $8.9 million for  1995,  1994,  and  1993,
respectively.

Long-Term Debt

On February 10, 1994, the Company issued $300 million aggregate principal
amount  of 6.5% unsecured notes in a public offering registered with  the
Securities  and Exchange Commission.  The notes were sold at  99.925%  of
par, for an effective yield to maturity of 6.51%.  The notes pay interest
semi-annually and mature on February 15, 2004.  Interest expense on long-
term debt for the years ended September 29, 1995, and September 30, 1994,
was $19.5 million and $12.5 million, respectively.

For  information regarding the Company's estimated fair value  of  short-
term  and  long-term debt, refer to page 28 of the Notes to  Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Restructuring of Operations

In the third quarter of 1993, the Company initiated a plan to restructure
its  operations worldwide in order to address the competitive  conditions
in  the personal computer industry, including the increased market demand
for  lower-priced  products.  In connection with this plan,  the  Company
recorded  a  $321 million charge to operating expenses ($199 million,  or
$1.72  per  share, after taxes).  The restructuring costs  included  $162
million  of  estimated  employee-related expenses  and  $159  million  of
estimated facilities, equipment, and other expenses associated  with  the
consolidation of operations and the relocation and termination of certain
operations and employees.  The restructuring plan originally contemplated
the  termination or relocation of approximately 4,150 employees worldwide
and  a reduction in worldwide office space, which primarily consisted  of
approximately  1.6  million  square feet  of  office  space  in  the  San
Francisco  Bay Area, within one year from the date the restructuring  was
initiated.

In  the  third quarter of 1994, the Company lowered its estimate  of  the
total costs associated with the restructuring and recorded an
adjustment that increased income by $127 million ($79 million,  or  $0.66
per  share,  after  taxes).   This  adjustment  primarily  reflected  the
modification or cancelation of certain elements of the Company's original
restructuring  plan because of changing business and economic  conditions
that  made  certain elements of the restructuring plan  financially  less
attractive  than originally anticipated.  In addition, some actions  were
completed at a lower cost than originally estimated.

The  most  significant element of the adjustment was associated with  $61
million in costs accrued to terminate or move a number of employees  from
the San Francisco Bay Area to a lower-cost location.  This element of the
Company's restructuring plan was expected to result in the termination or
relocation  of approximately 2,000 employees and the closure  of  certain
leased facilities, at a

                                       29
<PAGE>

cost of $39 million and $22 million, respectively.  However, the expected
benefits of this move were reduced since the plan's inception because  of
changes  to  the  cost  differential between the  Company's  current  and
alternative  locations.  For example, the Company favorably  renegotiated
the  lease  terms  of  certain facilities in its current  locations,  the
salary  growth  rate differentials between the Bay Area  and  alternative
locations  were  reduced, and changes to the California income  tax  laws
made it more attractive for companies to do business in California.   The
Company  canceled  this  action  in  the  third  quarter  of  1994,  when
management decided that the extended estimated pay-back period no  longer
justified  the  initial  cash investment and the unquantifiable  cost  of
business disruption that such a move would precipitate.

At  the  end of fiscal year 1994, approximately 1,760 employees had  been
terminated  at  a  cost  of  approximately  $95  million  in  termination
benefits,  and  approximately 80 had been  relocated.   The  Company  had
reduced  its use of office space in the Bay Area by approximately 867,000
square feet.

During  1995,  the  Company further lowered its estimates  of  the  total
remaining costs associated with its restructuring plan initiated  in  the
third quarter of 1993 and recorded an adjustment that increased income by
$23  million  ($14  million,  or $0.12 per  share,  after  taxes).   This
adjustment  primarily  reflected  favorable  cancelation  settlements  of
certain R&D project commitments and facility leases and the completion of
other actions at lower costs than originally estimated.

As  of  September  29,  1995,  the Company had  $11  million  of  accrued
restructuring  costs  for  actions that  are  currently  under  way,  the
majority   of   which   are  expected  to  be  completed   during   1996.
Approximately  $10  million  of  this  accrual  represents  cash  charges
expected  to  be  incurred primarily for estimated facilities  and  other
expenses.

Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net

Interest and other income (expense), net, consists of the following:
                                                                      
                                                               (In millions)
                                                                         
                                             1995        1994        1993
                                                                         
Interest income                        $      100   $      43    $     70
Interest expense                             (48)        (40)        (12)
Foreign currency gain (loss)                 (15)           9          12
Net premiums and discounts earned                                         
 (paid) on foreign exchange                  
 instruments                                 (46)        (34)        (32)
Other income (expense), net                   (1)          --         (8)
                                                                          
                                       $     (10)    $   (22)     $    30
























                                       30
<PAGE>


Income Taxes                                                            
                                                                     
                                                           (In millions)
The provision for income taxes                                          
consists of the following:
                                        FAS 109 Method     APB 11 Method
                                                                     
                                        1995      1994             1993

Federal:                                                                
  Current                           $   26     $    61          $    14
  Deferred                             113          20             (24)
                                       139          81             (10)
State:                                                                  
  Current                                1           6                3
  Deferred                              15          20                1
                                        16          26                4
Foreign:                                                                
  Current                               89          71               39
  Deferred                               6          12               20
                                        95          83               59
                                                                         
Provision for income taxes          $  250      $  190          $    53
                                                                        
The  foreign  provision  for  income taxes is  based  on  foreign  pretax
earnings of approximately $572 million, $474 million, and $416 million in
1995, 1994, and 1993, respectively.  The tax benefit credited directly to
common stock as a result of compensation expense attributable to employee
stock  option  and  purchase plans recognized differently  for  financial
reporting and tax purposes was $15 million in 1995.

Under  FAS  109, deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect  the  future
income  tax  effects  of  temporary  differences  between  the  financial
statement carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their respective
tax bases.

At September 29, 1995, and September 30, 1994, the significant components
of the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities were:
                                                              
                                                         (In millions)
                                                               
                                              September 29,     September 30,
                                                     1995              1994
                                                                
Deferred tax assets:                                              
  Accounts receivable and inventory reserves      $    87           $   141
  Accrued liabilities and other reserves               85               126
  Basis of capital assets and investments              82                66
   Total deferred tax assets                          254               333
Less: Valuation allowance                              14                11
Net deferred tax assets                               240               322
                                                                  
Deferred tax liabilities:                                         
  Unremitted earnings of subsidiaries                 648               657
  Other                                                27                29
Total deferred tax liabilities                        675               686
                                                                   
Net deferred tax liability                        $   435           $   364
                                                               
The  net change in the total valuation allowance was an increase of $3 million
and $11 million in 1995 and 1994, respectively.




                                       31
<PAGE>

Under  APB  Opinion  No.  11, deferred income taxes  result  from  timing
differences  between  years in the recognition  of  certain  revenue  and
expense  items for financial and tax reporting purposes.  The sources  of
timing differences and the related tax effects for 1993 are as follows:
                                          
                                                            (In millions)
                                   
                                                                    1993
                                          
Income of foreign subsidiaries not taxable in current year       $    53
Warranty, bad debt, and other expenses                              (80)
Depreciation                                                         (4)
Inventory valuation                                                 (17)
State income taxes                                                     3
Other individually  immaterial items                                  42
Total deferred taxes                                             $   (3)
                                              
A  reconciliation  of  the provision for income taxes,  with  the  amount
computed  by  applying the statutory federal income tax rate  (35.00%  in
1995,  35.00% in 1994, and 34.75% in 1993) to income before income taxes,
is as follows:
                                                                     
                                                              (In millions)
                                                                        
                                           FAS 109 Method      APB 11 Method
                                                                
                                          1995       1994             1993

Computed expected tax                   $  236     $  175            $   49
State taxes, net of federal benefit         10         17                 2
Research and development tax credit        (1)        (1)               (8)
Indefinitely invested earnings of        
 foreign subsidiaries                     (21)       (49)              (21)
Valuation allowance                          3          9                --
Other individually immaterial items         23         39                31
Provision for income taxes              $  250     $  190            $   53
Effective tax rate                         37%        38%               38%
                                                                         
The  Internal  Revenue Service ("IRS") has proposed  federal  income  tax
deficiencies  for the years 1984 through 1991, and the Company  has  made
certain   prepayments  thereon.   The  Company  contested  the   proposed
deficiencies for the years 1984 through 1988, and most of the  issues  in
dispute  for these years have been resolved.  On June 29, 1995,  the  IRS
issued  a notice of deficiency proposing increases to the amount  of  the
Company's  federal  income taxes for the years 1989  through  1991.   The
Company  has filed a petition with the United States Tax Court to contest
these  alleged  tax  deficiencies.   Management  believes  that  adequate
provision  has been made for any adjustments that may result  from  these
tax examinations.

Common Stock

Shareholder Rights Plan
In   May  1989,  the  Company  adopted  a  shareholder  rights  plan  and
distributed a dividend of one right to purchase one share of common stock
(a  "Right")  for each outstanding share of common stock of the  Company.
The  Rights become exercisable in certain limited circumstances involving
a  potential  business combination transaction of  the  Company  and  are
initially  exercisable at a price of $200 per share.   Following  certain
other  events  after  the  Rights  have become  exercisable,  each  Right
entitles its holder to purchase for $200 an amount of common stock of the
Company, or, in certain circumstances, securities of the acquiror, having
a then-current market value of two times the exercise price of the Right.
The  Rights  are  redeemable and may be amended at the  Company's  option
before  they become exercisable.  Until a Right is exercised, the  holder
of  a Right, as such, has no rights as a shareholder of the Company.  The
Rights expire on April 19, 1999.

Stock Option Plans
The  Company has in effect a 1990 Stock Option Plan (the "1990 Plan") and
a 1987 Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan (the "1987 Plan").  The 1981
Stock  Option  Plan terminated in October 1990.  Options  granted  before
that date remain outstanding in accordance with their terms.  Options may
be  granted  under  the  1990 Plan to employees, including  officers  and
directors who are
                                        
                                       32
<PAGE>

employees, at not less than the fair market value on the date  of  grant.
These  options generally become exercisable over a period of three years,
based  on continued employment, and generally expire ten years after  the
grant  date.   The  1990  Plan permits the granting  of  incentive  stock
options, nonstatutory stock options, and stock appreciation rights.

The  1987  Plan permits the granting of nonstatutory options  to  certain
officers of the Company to purchase Apple common stock at prices not less
than 75% of the fair market value on the date of grant. Options under the
1987  Plan are generally not exercisable for 18 months after the date  of
grant,  and  then become exercisable at varying rates over the subsequent
seven years, based on continued service to the Company.

In  July  1995, the Board of Directors adopted an amendment to  the  1990
Plan  to  increase  the number of shares reserved  for  issuance  by  8.6
million  shares, subject to shareholder approval at the Company's  Annual
Meeting  of  Shareholders scheduled for January 1996.  Concurrently,  the
Board  of Directors also resolved to terminate the 1987 Plan and transfer
all unused shares remaining under the 1987 Plan to the 1990 Plan, subject
to shareholder approval of the aforementioned amendment to the 1990 Plan.

Summarized information regarding the Company's stock option plans as of
September 29, 1995, is as follows:
                                                                         
                                     (In thousands, except per share amounts)
                                                                        
                                             Number of          
                                                Shares       Price per Share
                                                                  
Outstanding at September 30, 1994              13,411       $  7.50 - $ 68.00
   Granted                                      4,249                 
   Exercised                                  (2,442)       $  7.50 - $ 57.50
   Expired or canceled                        (1,341)                 
Outstanding at September 29, 1995              13,877       $  7.50 - $ 68.00
Exercisable                                     5,535                       
Reserved for issuance                          16,848                       
Available for future grant                      2,971                       
                                                                         
Restricted Stock Plan
On  April 1, 1993, the Company's Board of Directors approved a Restricted
Stock  Plan  for  officers  of  the Company  (the  "RSP"),  which  became
effective  July  1,  1993.   The  RSP was subsequently  ratified  by  the
shareholders  on  January 26, 1994.  The RSP is designed  to  provide  an
incentive for officers to continue to own shares of the Company's  common
stock  acquired upon exercise of options under any of the Company's Stock
Option  Plans,  thus more closely aligning officers' financial  interests
with  those  of  the  shareholders.  The RSP provides that  officers  who
exercise stock options and continue to hold the exercised shares  for  at
least three years will receive up to three awards of shares of restricted
stock.   Each such award is for one-third the number of shares  held  for
the  requisite  retention period.  Each restricted  stock  award  granted
pursuant  to  the plan becomes fully vested three years after  the  grant
date, provided that the officer maintains continuous employment with  the
Company and that other vesting requirements are met.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan
The  Company  has  an employee stock purchase plan (the "Purchase  Plan")
under which substantially all employees may purchase common stock through
payroll  deductions  at a price equal to 85% of the  lower  of  the  fair
market  values as of the beginning or end of the offering period.   Stock
purchases  under  the Purchase Plan are limited to 10% of  an  employee's
compensation,  up to a maximum of $25,000 in any calendar  year.   As  of
September 29, 1995, approximately 18,000 shares were reserved for  future
issuance  under the Purchase Plan.   In June 1995, the Board of Directors
adopted  an  amendment  to the Purchase Plan to increase  the  number  of
shares  reserved for issuance by 3 million shares, subject to shareholder
approval  at  the Company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders scheduled  for
January 1996.

Stock Repurchase Programs
In November 1992, the Board of Directors authorized the purchase of up to
10  million shares of the Company's common stock in the open market.   No
shares  were  repurchased under this authorization in 1995  or  in  1994;
approximately   3.4   million   shares  were   repurchased   under   this
authorization  in  1993.   In  September 1990,  the  Board  of  Directors
authorized  the  purchase  of up to 10 million shares  of  the  Company's
common  stock  in the open market.  During 1993, the Company  repurchased
the  remaining  shares under this authorization, which  approximated  1.6
million shares.




                                       33
<PAGE>

Employee Savings Plan

The  Company  has  an  employee savings plan (the  "Savings  Plan")  that
qualifies  as a deferred salary arrangement under Section 401(k)  of  the
Internal  Revenue  Code.   Under  the Savings  Plan,  participating  U.S.
employees  may  defer  a  portion of their pretax  earnings,  up  to  the
Internal  Revenue Service annual contribution limit ($9,240 for  calendar
year  1995).  Effective October 1, 1995, the Company matches 50% to  100%
of each employee's contributions, depending on length of service, up to a
maximum  6%  of the employee's earnings.  Prior to October 1,  1995,  the
Company matched 30% to 70% of each employee's contributions, depending on
length  of  service, up to a maximum 6% of the employee's earnings.   The
Company's  matching contributions to the Savings Plan were  approximately
$14.6  million, $10.7 million, and $11.1 million in 1995, 1994, and 1993,
respectively.

Preferred Stock

Five  million shares of preferred stock have been authorized for issuance
in  one or more series.  The Board of Directors is authorized to fix  the
number  and  designation of any such series and to determine the  rights,
preferences,  privileges, and restrictions granted to or imposed  on  any
such series.

Commitments and Contingencies

Lease Commitments

The  Company  leases various facilities and equipment under noncancelable
operating lease arrangements.  The major facilities leases are for  terms
of 5 to 10 years and generally provide renewal options for terms of up to
5  additional  years.   Rent  expense  under  all  operating  leases  was
approximately $127 million, $122 million, and $170 million in 1995, 1994,
and  1993,  respectively.   Future minimum  lease  payments  under  these
noncancelable  operating leases having remaining terms in excess  of  one
year as of September 29, 1995, are as follows:

                                                     (In millions)
                                                               
1996                                                       $    71
1997                                                            62
1998                                                            38
1999                                                            21
2000                                                            17
Later years                                                     36
Total minimum lease payments                                $  245

Litigation

Apple v. Microsoft Corporation and Hewlett-Packard Company
In  March 1988, the Company filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the
Northern   District   of  California  (the  "Court")  against   Microsoft
Corporation  ("Microsoft") and Hewlett-Packard  Company  ("HP")  alleging
that  their  Microsoft Windows and HP NewWave computer programs  infringe
the  Company's  audiovisual  copyrights  protecting  the  Macintosh  user
interface.  On August 24, 1993, the district court entered final judgment
for Microsoft and HP, dismissing the Company's action.

On  September 21, 1993, the Court denied defendants' motions for an award
of  full  defense costs and attorneys' fees under 17 U.S.C. Section  505,
but  allowed  defendants to renew their motions should the Supreme  Court
alter the standard for the award of attorneys' fees in copyright cases in
the case of Fogerty v. Fantasy, Inc., 114 S. Ct. 1023 (1994).
            ------------------------

On September 20, 1993, the Company appealed the case to the U.S. Court of
Appeals  for  the  Ninth Circuit.  On September 24, 1994,  the  Court  of
Appeals issued its decision affirming the district court judgment on  the
merits but remanding the case on the issue of attorneys' fees in light of
the  Fogerty   decision.   The Company filed a petition  for  a  writ  of
     -------                                                  -----------
certiorari  in  the Supreme Court of the United States  on  December  19,
- ----------
1994.

The Company's petition for a writ of certiorari was denied by the Supreme
                             ------------------
Court  of  the  United  States on February 21,  1995.   Accordingly,  the
decision  of the appellate court affirming the dismissal of the Company's
copyright  infringement case against Microsoft and HP is now final.   The
requests  of  Microsoft and HP for attorneys' fees have been resolved  by
settlement  agreements.   Accordingly,  the  matter  has  been   entirely
resolved.

                                       34
<PAGE>

Industry Segment and Geographic Information
                                        
The  Company  operates  in one principal industry  segment:  the  design,
manufacture,  and  sale  of personal computing products.   The  Company's
products  are  sold  primarily  to  the business,  education,  home,  and
government markets.

Geographic financial information is as follows:
                                                                      
                                                             (In millions)
                                                                          
                                            1995          1994          1993
                                                                  
Net sales to unaffiliated customers:
  North America                        $   6,130     $   5,291     $   4,694
  Europe                                   2,365         2,096         2,002
  Japan                                    1,822         1,234           835
  Pacific                                    745           568           446
    Total net sales                    $  11,062     $   9,189     $   7,977
                                                                          
Transfers between geographic                                               
 areas (eliminated in
 consolidation):
  North America                        $     511     $     409     $     421
  Europe                                     178           234           263
  Japan                                       --            --             9
  Pacific                                  3,619         2,618         2,293
    Total transfers                    $   4,308     $   3,261     $   2,986
                                                                        
Operating income (loss):                                                  
  North America                        $    (20)     $    (27)     $   (243)
  Europe                                     245           276            60
  Japan                                       46            47            20
  Pacific                                    383           245           256
  Eliminations                                30          (19)            17
  Corporate income (expense), net           (10)          (22)            30
    Income before income taxes         $     674     $     500     $     140
                                                                          
Identifiable assets:                                                      
  North America                        $   3,112     $   2,393     $   2,627
  Europe                                     927           824           970
  Japan                                      686           522           362
  Pacific                                    581           364           345
  Eliminations                              (34)          (67)          (46)
  Corporate assets                           959         1,267           913
    Total assets                       $   6,231     $   5,303     $   5,171
                                                                          
"Europe" includes Europe, the Middle East and Africa.  "Pacific" includes
Australia,  Hong  Kong, Singapore, Taiwan, Latin  America,  and  South
America.  Prior year amounts have been restated to conform to the current
year's presentation.  Net sales to unaffiliated customers is based on the
location  of  the  customers.   Transfers between  geographic  areas  are
recorded at amounts generally above cost and in accordance with the rules
and  regulations of the respective governing tax authorities.   Operating
income  (loss)  by  geographic area consists  of  total  net  sales  less
operating  expenses,  and  does  not include  an  allocation  of  general
corporate  expenses.  The restructuring charge recorded in 1993  and  the
related  adjustments  recorded  in 1995 and  1994  are  included  in  the
calculation  of  operating  income  (loss)  for  each  geographic   area.
Identifiable  assets of geographic areas are those  assets  used  in  the
Company's  operations in each area.  Corporate assets  include  cash  and
cash equivalents, joint venture investments, and short-term investments.






                                       35
<PAGE>

Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)
                                        
                  (Tabular amounts in millions, except per share amounts)

                                                                         
                              Fourth       Third       Second       First
                             Quarter     Quarter      Quarter     Quarter

1995                                                                     
                                                                         
Net sales                    $ 3,003      $ 2,575     $ 2,652     $ 2,832
Gross margin                 $   621      $   728     $   695     $   814
Net income                   $    60      $   103     $    73     $   188
Earnings per common and                                                  
 common equivalent share     $  0.48      $  0.84     $  0.59     $  1.55
Cash dividends declared                                                  
 per common share            $  0.12      $  0.12     $  0.12     $  0.12
Price range per common       
 share                       $49 7/8-     $50 1/8-    $48-        $43 3/4-
                             $34 11/16    $33 5/8     $33 7/8     $32 1/2
                                                                         
1994                                                                     
                                                                         
Net sales                    $ 2,493      $ 2,150     $ 2,077     $ 2,469
Gross margin                 $   679      $   574     $   499     $   592
Net income                   $   115      $   138     $    17     $    40
Earnings per common and                                                   
 common equivalent share     $  0.95      $  1.16     $  0.15     $  0.34
Cash dividends declared                                                   
 per common share            $  0.12      $  0.12     $  0.12     $  0.12
Price range per common       
 share                       $36 3/8-     $33 1/2-    $38 1/8-    $   34- 
                             $26 1/8      $25 1/8     $29 1/4     $22 1/2

At September 29, 1995, there were 29,247 shareholders of record.

The  Company began declaring quarterly cash dividends on its common stock
in  April 1987.  The dividend policy is determined quarterly by the Board
of  Directors  and  is  dependent  on  the  Company's  earnings,  capital
requirements, financial condition, and other factors.

The  price  range  per  common share represents the  highest  and  lowest
closing  prices  for  the Company's common stock on the  Nasdaq  National
Market during each quarter.

Net  income  for  the  first  quarter of 1995  includes  a  restructuring
adjustment  that increased income by $17 million ($11 million,  or  $0.09
per  share,  after  taxes).  Net income for the  third  quarter  of  1995
includes  a restructuring adjustment that increased income by $6  million
($4  million, or $0.03 per share, after taxes).  Net income for the third
quarter of 1994 includes a restructuring adjustment that increased income
by $127 million ($79 million, or $0.66 per share, after taxes).



Item  9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting  and
Financial Disclosure

Not applicable.





                                       36
<PAGE>

PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Information  regarding directors of the Registrant is set  forth  in  the
Proxy Statement under the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc.
- -  Directors"  and  under  the  heading "Election  of  Directors",  which
information  is hereby incorporated by reference.  Information  regarding
executive  officers  of  the Company found under the  caption  "Executive
Officers  of  the  Registrant" in Part I hereof is also  incorporated  by
reference into this Item 10.

Item 11. Executive Compensation

Information  regarding executive compensation is set forth in  the  Proxy
Statement  under  the heading "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. 
- -Change in Control Arrangements", "Information About Apple Computer, Inc. -
Director  Compensation",  "Information  About  Apple  Computer,  Inc.   -
Arrangements  with  Executive  Officers",  "Report  of  the  Compensation
Committee  of  the  Board  of Directors on Executive  Compensation",  and
"Information  Regarding  Executive Compensation",  which  information  is
hereby incorporated by reference.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners  and Management

Information regarding security ownership of certain beneficial owners and
management  is  set  forth  in  the Proxy  Statement  under  the  heading
"Information About Apple Computer, Inc. - Security Ownership  of  Certain
Beneficial   Owners   and  Management",  which  information   is   hereby
incorporated by reference.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Information regarding  certain relationships and related transactions  is
set  forth  in  the Proxy Statement under the heading "Information  About
Apple  Computer, Inc. - Director Compensation ", "Information About Apple
Computer,  Inc. - Arrangements with Executive Officers", and  "Report  of
the  Compensation  Committee  of  the Board  of  Directors  on  Executive
Compensation   -   Compensation   Committee   Interlocks   and    Insider
Participation", which information is hereby incorporated by reference.

                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                       37
<PAGE>

PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)     Items Filed as Part of Report:

 1. Financial Statements
       The  financial statements of the Company as set forth in the Index
 to  Consolidated Financial Statements under Part II, Item    8  of  this
 Form 10-K are hereby incorporated by reference.
 
 2. Financial Statement Schedules
       The  financial statement schedules of the Company as set forth  in
 the  Index to Consolidated Financial Statements under Part   II, Item  8
 of this Form 10-K are hereby incorporated by reference.
 
3. Exhibits

      The exhibits listed under Item 14(c) are filed as part of this Form
10-K.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K

       No  Current  Reports  on Form 8-K were filed  by  Apple  with  the
 Securities and Exchange Commission during the fourth   quarter of fiscal
 1995.

(c) Exhibits

Exhibit
Number    Notes*       Description

 3.1     88-S3        Restated Articles of Incorporation, filed with the
                      Secretary of State of the State of
                      California on January 27, 1988.
 
 3.2     90-2Q        Amendment to Restated Articles of Incorporation,
                      filed with the Secretary of State of the
                      State of California on February 5, 1990.
 
 3.3     95/1Q        By-Laws of the Company, as amended through
                      November 2, 1994.
 
 4.1     89-8A        Common Shares Rights Agreement dated as of May 15,
                      1989 between the Company and
                      the First National Bank of Boston, as Rights Agent.
 
 4.2     94/2Q        Indenture dated as of February 1, 1994, between
                      the Company and Morgan Guaranty
                      Trust Company of New York (the "Indenture").
 
 4.3     94/2Q        Supplemental Indenture dated as of February 1,
                      1994, among the Company, Morgan
                      Guaranty Trust Company of New York, as resigning
                      trustee, and Citibank, N.A., as
                      successor trustee.
 
 4.4     94/2Q        Officers' Certificate, without exhibits, pursuant
                      to Section 301 of the Indenture,
                      establishing the terms of the Company's 6 1/2%
                      Notes due 2004.
 
 4.5     94/2Q        Form of the Company's 6 1/2% Note due 2004.
 
 10.A.1  93/3Q**     1981 Stock Option Plan, as amended.
 
 10.A.2    91K**     1987 Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan.
 
 10.A.3    91K**     Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and Investment  Plan,
                     as amended and restated effective as of October 1, 1990.
 
 *   Footnotes appear on page 40.
 ** Represents a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
 
                                       38
<PAGE>
 
 (c) Exhibits  (continued)
 
 Exhibit
 Number     Notes*       Description
 
 10.A.3-1    92K**      Amendment  of Apple Computer,  Inc.  Savings  and
                        Investment Plan dated March 1, 1992.
 
 10.A.4      88K**      Form of Director Warrant
 
 10.A.5      94/2Q**   1990 Stock Option Plan, as amended through January
                        26, 1994.
 
 10.A.6      91K**     Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase  Plan,
                       as amended.
 
 10.A.7      **        1995 Senior / Executive Incentive Bonus Plan.
 
 10.A.8      91K**     Form  of Indemnification Agreement  between  the
                       Registrant and each officer of the Registrant.
 
 10.A.15     91K**     Agreement  dated  April  12,  1991  between  the
                       Registrant and Michael H. Spindler.
 
 10.A.15-1   93K-10.A.1**  1993 Executive Restricted  Stock
                           Plan
 
 10.A.19     94/2Q**   Executive Severance Plan as amended  and  restated
                       effective as of July 1, 1993
 
 10.A.19-1   95/3Q**   Supplement to the Executive Severance  Plan
                       effective as of June 9, 1995.
 
 10.A.20     95/Q2**   Separation Agreement dated April 19, 1995, between
                       the Registrant and Ian Diery.
                        
 10.A.21     95/Q3**   Form of Senior Executive Retention Agreement  dated
                       June 9, 1995.
 
 10.A.22     95/Q3**   Retention Agreement dated June 9, 1995 between  the
                       Registrant and Michael H. Spindler
 
 10.B.1     88K-10.1   Master OEM Agreement dated as of January 26,  1988
                       between the Company and Tokyo Electric Co. Ltd.
 
 10.B.7     91-8K-7    Know-how and Copyright License Agreement (Power PC 
                       Architecture) dated as of September 30, 1991 between
                       IBM and the Registrant. 

 10.B.8     91-8K-8    Participation in the Customer Design Center by  the
                       Registrant  dated as of September 30, 1991 between IBM 
                       and the Registrant.
 
 10.B.9     91-8K-9    Agreement for Purchase of IBM Products  (Original
                       Equipment Manufacturer) dated as of September 30, 1991
                       between IBM and the Registrant.
 
 10.B.11    91K        Agreement dated October 9, 1991 between Apple
                       Corps Limited and the Registrant.
 
 10.B.12    92K        Microprocessor Requirements Agreement dated January 
                       31, 1992 between the Registrant and Motorola, Inc.
 
 11                    Computation of per share earnings.
 
 21                    Subsidiaries of the Company.
 
 23                    Consent of Independent Auditors.
 
 24                    Power of Attorney.
 
 27                    Financial Data Schedule.
 
 
 
 *   Footnotes appear on page 40.
 ** Represents a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
 
                                       39
<PAGE>

NOTES
88K           Incorporated   by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.22   to   the
              Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year
              ended September 30, 1988 (the "1988 Form 10-K").

88-S3         Incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the  Company's
              Registration  Statement on Form S-3  (file  no.  33-23317)
              filed July 27, 1988.

88K-10.1      Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the 1988  Form
              10-K.   Confidential treatment as to certain  portions  of
              these agreements has been granted.

89-8A         Incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit 1 to  the  Company's
              Registration  Statement  on  Form  8-A  filed   with   the
              Securities and Exchange Commission on May 26, 1989.

90/2Q         Incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the  Company's
              Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended  March
              30, 1990.

91K           Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of that number  in
              the  Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for  the  fiscal
              year ended September 27, 1991 (the "1991 Form 10-K").

91-8K-7       Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 7 to the October 1991 
              Form 8-K.

91-8K-8       Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 8 to the October  1991
              Form 8-K.

91-8K-9       Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 9 to the October  1991
              Form 8-K.

92K           Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of that number  in
              the  Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for  the  fiscal
              year ended September 25, 1992 (the "1992 Form 10-K").

93K-10.A.15   Incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.A.15 to  the  1993
              Form 10-K.

93/3Q         Incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.A.1   to   the
              Company's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for  the  quarter
              ended June 25, 1993.

94/2Q         Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of that number  in
              the  Company's  Quarterly Report  on  Form  10-Q  for  the
              quarter ended April 1, 1994.

95/1Q         Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of that number  in
              the  Company's  Quarterly Report  on  Form  10-Q  for  the
              quarter ended December 30, 1994.

95/2Q         Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of that number  in
              the  Company's  Quarterly Report  on  Form  10-Q  for  the
              quarter ended March 31, 1995

95/3Q         Incorporated by reference to the exhibit of that number  in
              the  Company's  Quarterly Report  on  Form  10-Q  for  the
              quarter ended June 30, 1995.


(d)    Financial Statement Schedules

         See Item 14(a)(2) of this Form 10-K.






                                       40
<PAGE>
                                        
                                  (Exhibit 23)
                                        
                                        
                                        
                         CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
                                        
                                        
                                        
We  consent  to  the  incorporation  by  reference  in  the  Registration
Statements (Form S-8 Nos. 2-70449, 2-77563, 2-85095, 33-00866,  33-23650,
33-31075, 33-40877, 33-47596, 33-57092 33-57080, 33-53873, 33-53879,  33-
53895,  33-60279,  and 33-60281) pertaining to the 1981  and  1990  Stock
Option  Plans,  the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the 1980  Key  Employee
Stock  Purchase Plan, the 1986 Employee Incentive Stock Option Plan,  the
1987 Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan, the 1993 Executive Restricted
Stock Plan, and the Form of Director Warrant of Apple Computer, Inc.  and
Form S-3 No. 33-62310 and in the related Prospectuses of our report dated
October  16,  1995 with respect to the consolidated financial  statements
and  schedules  of  Apple Computer, Inc. included in this  Annual  Report
(Form 10-K) for the year ended September 29, 1995.








                                                     s/ Ernst & Young LLP
                                                        Ernst & Young LLP
                                                                                
San Jose, California
December 19, 1995































                                        
                                       41
<PAGE>
                                        
                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                              APPLE COMPUTER, INC.
                                  (Registrant)
                                        
                          By:  /s/ MICHAEL H. SPINDLER
                                        
                               MICHAEL H. SPINDLER
                      President and Chief Executive Officer
                                December 19, 1995

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature
appears below constitutes and appoints Michael H. Spindler and Edward B.
Stead, jointly and severally, his or her attorneys-in-fact, each with the
power of substitution, for him or her in any and all capacities, to sign
any amendments to this Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with
exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all
that each of said attorneys-in-fact, or his substitute or substitutes, may
do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:
                                      
                                      
/s/ Michael H. Spindler               /s/ Jeanne Seeley
MICHAEL H. SPINDLER                   JEANNE SEELEY
President and                         Vice President, Finance, and
Chief Executive Officer               Corporate Controller
(Principal Executive Officer), and    (Principal Financial Officer)
Director                              December 19, 1995
December 19, 1995                     
                                      
/s/ Armas C. Markkula, Jr             /s/ Delano E. Lewis
ARMAS C. MARKKULA, JR.                DELANO E. LEWIS
Chairman of the Board                 Director
and Director                          December 19, 1995
December 19, 1995                     
                                      
/s/ Peter O. Crisp                    /s/ Bernard Goldstein
PETER O. CRISP                        BERNARD GOLDSTEIN
Director                              Director
December 19, 1995                     December 19, 1995
                                      
/s/ Jurgen Hintz                      /s/ Katherine Hudson
B. JURGEN HINTZ                       KATHERINE HUDSON
Director                              Director
December 19, 1995                     December 19, 1995
                                      
/s/ Gilbert F. Amelio  
DR. GILBERT F. AMELIO                 
Director                              
December 19, 1995                     
                                      
                                      
Pursuant  to  the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of  the  Securities
Exchange  Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report  to  be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                       42
<PAGE>





                                                                SCHEDULE II

                              APPLE COMPUTER, INC.
                                        
                        VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                                                                           

                                                              
                                                          (In millions)
                                                             
                                     Charged to               
Allowance for           Beginning    Costs and    Deductions   Ending
Doubtful Accounts:      Balance      Expenses     (1)          Balance
           
Year Ended                                                     
September 29, 1995       $ 91         $ 17        $ 21         $ 87
                                                               
Year Ended                                                     
September 30, 1994       $ 84         $ 25        $ 18         $ 91
                                                               
Year Ended                                                     
September 24, 1993       $ 83         $ 26        $ 25         $ 84
                                                               








____________________________________________

(1) Represents amounts written off against the allowance, net of
recoveries.






















                                       S-1
<PAGE>

INDEX TO EXHIBITS

Exhibit
Index
Number    Notes        Description                                Page

3.1       (1)        Restated Articles of Incorporation, filed    
                     with the Secretary of State of the State     
                     of California on January 27, 1988.           38
                     
3.2       (1)        Amendment to Restated Articles of            
                     Incorporation, filed with the Secretary of   
                     State of the State of California on
                     February 5, 1990.                            38
                     
3.3       (1)        By-Laws of the Company, as amended through   
                     April 20, 1994.                              38
                     
4.1       (1)        Common Shares Rights Agreement dated as of   
                     May 15, 1989 between the Company and the     
                     First National Bank of Boston, as Rights
                     Agent.                                       38
                     
4.2       (1)        Indenture dated as of February 1, 1994,      
                     between the Company and Morgan Guaranty      
                     Trust Company of New York (the
                     "Indenture").                                38
                     
4.3       (1)        Supplemental Indenture dated as of           
                     February 1, 1994, among the Company,         
                     Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York,   
                     as resigning trustee, and Citibank, N.A.,
                     as successor trustee.                        38
                     
4.4       (1)        Officers' Certificate, without exhibits,     
                     pursuant to Section 301 of the Indenture,    
                     establishing the terms of the Company's 6
                     1/2% Notes due 2004.                         38
                     
4.5       (1)        Form of the Company's 6 1/2% Note due        
                     2004.                                        38
                     
10.A.1    (1)        1981 Stock Option Plan, as                   
                     amended.                                     38
                     
10.A.2    (1)        1987 Executive Long Term Stock Option        
                     Plan.                                        38
                     
10.A.3    (1)        Apple Computer, Inc. Savings and             
                     Investment Plan, as amended and restated     
                     effective as of October 1, 1990.             38
                     
10.A.3-1  (1)        Amendment of Apple Computer, Inc. Savings    
                     and Investment Plan dated March 1, 1992.     39
                     
10.A.4    (1)        Form of Director Warrant                     39
                     
10.A.5    (1)        1990 Stock Option Plan, as amended through   
                     January 26, 1994.                            39
                     
10.A.6    (1)        Apple Computer, Inc. Employee Stock          
                     Purchase Plan, as amended.                   39
                     
10.A.7    (1)        1995 Senior / Executive Incentive Bonus      
                     Plan.                                        49
                     
10.A.8    (1)        Form of Indemnification Agreement between    
                     the Registrant and each officer of the       
                     Registrant.                                  39
                     
10.A.15   (1)        Agreement dated April 12, 1991 between the   
                     Registrant and Michael H. Spindler.          39
                     
10.A.15-1  (1)       1993 Executive Restricted Stock Plan         39
                    
10.A.19   (1)        Executive Severance Plan as amended and      
                     restated effective as of July 1, 1993.       39
                     
(1) Incorporated by reference at page indicated.
                                        
                                        
                                       44
<PAGE>

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (Continued)

Exhibit
Index
Number    Notes        Description                                Page

10.A.19-1 (1)        Supplement    to    the    Executive         
                     Severance Plan effective as of  June         
                     9, 1995.                                     39
                       
10.A.20   (1)        Separation Agreement dated April 19, 1995,   
                     between the Registrant and Ian Diery.        39
                     
10.A.21   (1)        Form of Senior Executive Retention           
                     Agreement dated June 9, 1995.                39
                                             
10.A.22   (1)        Retention Agreement dated June 9, 1995       
                     between the Registrant and Michael H.       
                     Spindler.                                    39 
                     
10.B.1    (1)        Master OEM Agreement dated as of January     
                     26, 1988 between the Company and Tokyo       
                     Electric Co. Ltd.                            39

10.B.7    (1)        Know-how and Copyright License Agreement
                     (Power PC Architecture) dated as of 
                     September 30, 1991 between IBM and the
                     Registrant.                                  39
                     
10.B.8    (1)        Participation in the Customer Design         
                     Center by the Registrant dated as of         
                     September 30, 1991 between IBM and the
                     Registrant.                                  39
                     
10.B.9    (1)        Agreement for Purchase of IBM Products       
                     (Original Equipment Manufacturer) dated as   
                     of September 30, 1991 between IBM and the    
                     Registrant.                                  39
                     
10.B.11   (1)        Agreement dated October 9, 1991 between      
                     Apple Corps Limited and the Registrant.      39
                     
10.B.12   (1)        Microprocessor Requirements Agreement        
                     dated January 31, 1992 between the           
                     Registrant and Motorola, Inc.                39
                     
11                   Computation of per share earnings.           46
                     
21                   Subsidiaries of the Company.                 47
                     
23                   Consent of Independent Auditors.             41
                     
24                   Power of Attorney.                           42
                     
27                   Financial Data Schedule.                     48

(1) Incorporated by reference at page indicated.


















                                       45
<PAGE>

</TEXT>

</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-11
<SEQUENCE>2
<TEXT>


EXHIBIT  11
                                        
                              APPLE COMPUTER, INC.
                                        
                    COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE
                                        
                    (In thousands, except per share amounts)

                                                      
                                           Fiscal Years      
                                              Ended

                             September 29,   September 30,   September 24,
                                   1995            1994           1993
                                                               
Primary Earnings Per  Share                                
                                                           
  Earnings                                                 
     Net income applicable      
     to common stock            $424,175         $310,178        $ 86,589
                                                                
  Shares                                                        
     Weighted average number                                    
     of  common shares           121,192          117,808         117,096
     outstanding
                                                                
     Adjustment for dilutive                                    
     effect of outstanding         
     stock options                 1,855              927           2,029
                                                                
  Weighted average number of                                    
  common and common equivalent          
  shares used for
  primary earnings per share     123,047          118,735         119,125
                                                                
  Primary earnings per            
  common share                  $   3.45         $   2.61        $   0.73
                                                                
Fully Diluted Earnings Per                                      
Share
                                                                
  Earnings                                                 
     Net income applicable      
     to common stock            $424,175         $310,178        $ 86,589
                                                                
  Shares                                                        
     Weighted average number                                    
     of common shares          
     outstanding                 121,192          117,808         117,096
                                                                
     Adjustment for dilutive                                    
     effect of outstanding                       
     stock options                 2,076            1,002           2,174
                                                                    
  Weighted average number of                                    
  common  and common equivalent
  shares used for fully diluted      
  earnings per share             123,268          118,810         119,270

  Fully diluted earnings per    $   3.44         $   2.61        $   0.73
  common share
                                                                
                                                           


                                       46
<PAGE>


</TEXT>

</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>3
<TEXT>

                                        
                                   EXHIBIT 21
                                        
                                 SUBSIDIARIES OF
                              APPLE COMPUTER, INC*
                                        
                                        

                                        
                                        Jurisdiction of
Name                                    Incorporation
                                        
Apple Computer A. B.                    Sweden
Apple Computer B.V.                     Netherlands
Apple Computer France S.A.R.L.          France
Apple Computer, Ltd., Cork              Ireland
Apple Computer, Inc. Limited            Ireland
Apple Computer Limited                  Ireland
Apple Computer (UK) Ltd.                United Kingdom
Apple Japan, Inc.                       Japan
                                        























 *Pursuant to Item 601(b)(21)(ii) of Regulation S-K, the names of other
 subsidiaries of Apple Computer, Inc. are omitted because, considered in
 the aggregate, they would not constitute a significant subsidiary as of
 the end of the year covered by this report.
 
 
 


                                       47
<PAGE>



</TEXT>

</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>ART. 5 FDS FOR FY95 FORM 10-K
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>


<ARTICLE>           5

<MULTIPLIER>                            1,000,000
                                        
                                        
<PERIOD-TYPE>                           YEAR
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                                        SEP-29-1995
<PERIOD-END>                                             SEP-29-1995
                                        
<CASH>                                                           756
<SECURITIES>                                                     196
<RECEIVABLES>                                                  2,018
<ALLOWANCES>                                                      87
<INVENTORY>                                                    1,775
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                                               5,224
<PP&E>                                                         1,492
<DEPRECIATION>                                                   781
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                                 6,231
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                                          2,325
<BONDS>                                                          303
<COMMON>                                                         398
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                              0
<PREFERRED>                                                        0
<OTHER-SE>                                                     2,503
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                                   6,231
                                                                    
<SALES>                                                       11,062
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                                              11,062
<CGS>                                                          8,204
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                                  8,204
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                               2,174
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                                   0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                                                48
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                                  674
<INCOME-TAX>                                                     250
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                                              424
<DISCONTINUED>                                                     0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                                    0
<CHANGES>                                                          0
<NET-INCOME>                                                     424
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                                   3.45
<EPS-DILUTED>                                                   3.44

                                       


 

</TEXT>

</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>5
<TEXT>

(EXHIBIT 10.A.7)

                                        
                                        
                                      FY95
                      SENIOR/EXECUTIVE INCENTIVE BONUS PLAN
                                        
PURPOSE:

The purpose of the Senior/Executive Incentive Bonus Plan  "The Plan" is to
focus the efforts of Senior Management towards predetermined, specific
goals and objectives which are of critical importance to the success of the
organization.

The program specifically:
     -encourages participants to achieve outstanding results toward company
      and individual objectives,

     -strengthens the ability of the organization to attract and retain
      high caliber, key management personnel, and

     -provides a leveraged compensation program that is based on
      performance towards objectives, with superior performance
      resulting in aggressive compensation levels.

ELIGIBILITY:
     -  Chief Executive Officer    -  Vice-Presidents
     -  Division Presidents        -  Senior Directors
     -  Senior Vice Presidents     -  Directors

Full year participants in the Senior/Executive Incentive Bonus Plan may not
participate in other bonus plans without the approval of the Chief
Executive Officer.  However, nominal gift certificates and awards are
acceptable (less than $500).

INCENTIVE BONUS GUIDELINES:
Bonus targets for eligible participants in the Senior/Executive Incentive
Bonus Plan will be set individually and expressed as a percent of base
salary as of 10/1/94 according to salary grade.  If an individual's salary
grade changes during the year, the bonus target may be adjusted on a
prorated basis (see Administrative Procedures).

PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENTS:
There are two main components used to determine the bonus payout amounts
after the end of the applicable biannual payout period (see Bonus Payouts):
the Financial Performance Measurements  and the Individual Performance
Measurements .  Details of the various performance measurements are
described below.
                                        
Financial Performance
The Financial Performance Measurements consist of Units, Net Inventory
Turns, Return on Capital Employed (ROCE), Operating Margin and Day Sales
Outstanding.  All Plan participants will be measured on either Corporate or
Division Business Measurements as described in the Weighting of Performance
Measurements section.

                                       49
<PAGE>

Individual Performance Measurement
The Individual Performance Measurement  is based on performance against two
to four objectives that are aligned with Corporate/Division strategic
objectives.

Weighting of Performance Measurements
The weighting is from 60% to 80% on financial performance measurements and
20% to 40% on individual performance measurements, depending on position as
shown in the table below.  The financial results used in determining
financial performance are based on the participant's position and will be
either a Corporate or Divisional measurement.  Functional Staff (e.g.
Finance, Human Resources, Information Systems and Legal.) within a Division
will be measured on the Division's Business Measurements.  Details of the
weighting of financial and individual performance measurements are as
follows:

SR/EXEC FINANCIAL MEASUREMENTS:

                       FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENTS
      CORPORATE                       Net        Days               INDIVIDUAL
                     Units  Operating Inventory  Sales    Corporate PERFORMANCE
                     Volume Margin    Turns    Outstanding   ROCE   MEASUREMENT
                                                      
CEO/CFO/OOP            20%                                    60%       20%
Corporate 
 Staff VP's/DIR's                                             60%       40%
ATG VP's/DIR's                                                60%       40%
WWOps-Sr VP            20%             25%                    35%       20%
WWOps-Ops 
 VP's/ DIR's           20%             20%                    30%       30%
WWOps-Staff 
 VP's/DIR's                            30%                    30%       40%


DIVISIONS/GEO's                                                      
PC Division-GM only     20%                                   60%       20%
PC Division- Ops        
 VP's/DIR's             20%    30%     20%                              30%
PC Division-Staff              
 VP's/DIR's                    40%     20%                              40%
ABS Division-Ops        
 GM/VP's/DIR's          20%    30%     20%                              30%
ABS Division-Staff      
 GM/VP's/DIR's          25%    35%                                      40%
AppleSoft Division-    
 Ops GM/VP's/DIR's      40%    30%                                      30%
AppleSoft Division-     
 Staff VP's/DIR's       25%    35%                                      40%
AOS Division-Staff             
 VP's/DIR's                    70%                                      30%
AOS Division-Staff             
 VP's/DIR's                    60%                                      40%
PIE Division -Ops      
 GM/VP's/DIR's          20%    50%                                      30%
PIE Division-Staff      
 VP's/DIR's             20%    40%                                      40% 
GEO Presidents          35%    15%     15%        15%                   20%
GEO Division- Ops      
 GM/VP's/DIR's          25%    15%     15%        15%                   30%
GEO Division-Staff     
 VP's/DIR's             25%    35%                                      40%

Any exceptions to using these financial performance measurements must be
approved by the Senior Vice President of Human Resources.

DETAILS OF AWARD DETERMINATION:
Target payouts (less deductions and withholdings) will be based on the
expectation of meeting  financial/division and individual performance
goals.  If the thresholds are met, period-end payouts will be calculated in
each segment as described below.

                                       50
<PAGE>

FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENTS


Corporate Performance Measurements
Corporate Performance Measurements will be Units, Return On Capital
Employed (ROCE) and Net Inventory Turns.  If the threshold is met, it will
be multiplied by a percentage from 50% through 175% depending on Corporate
Performance.  If the threshold is not met, there will be no payout for that
performance segment.

The bonus payouts at various achievements against plan for the Units, ROCE
and Net Inventory Turns segments are shown in the tables below. Actual
payouts between those shown will be calculated on any actual incremental %
achievement against plan.


     Units Segment
This segment will measure quanity of Units achieved to Plan.  The minimum
threshold percent against plan is 98.8%.  When the minimum threshold is
reached, a bonus is paid equal to 50% of the Units bonus target.  When 100%
of the target is reached, a bonus equal to 100% of the Units portion of the
target bonus is payable.  At 105.5% of the Units target, the bonus payable
equals 175% of the Units portion of the target bonus.  Actual payouts may,
therefore, range from 0% to a maximum of 175% of the Units portion of the
target bonus.

PAYOUT TABLE:  UNITS

                % to        % Bonus    % per each   
                Plan        Payout        Point
MAXIMUM        105.5%        175%        11.36%          

               103.3%        150%        15.15%          

PLAN           100.0%        100%                   Accelerator
                                                    Decelerator
THRESHOLD       98.8%         50%        41.67%          

               less            0%                         
             than 98.8%

     ROCE Segment
This segment will measure Return On Capital Employed achieved to Plan.  The
minimum threshold percent against plan is 90%.  When the minimum threshold
is reached, a bonus is paid equal to 50% of the ROCE bonus target.  When
100% of the target is reached, a bonus equal to 100% of the ROCE portion of
the target bonus is payable.  At 140% of the ROCE target, the bonus equals
175% of the ROCE portion of the target bonus.  Actual payouts may,
therefore, range from 0% to a maximum of 175% of the ROCE portion of the
target bonus.

                                       51
<PAGE>

PAYOUT TABLE:  ROCE

                % to        % Bonus    % per each   
                Plan        Payout        Point
                  
MAXIMUM         140%         175%         2.31%     

                132%         157%         2.31%     
                124%         138%         2.00%
                116%         122%         1.50%
                108%         110%         1.25%
PLAN            100%         100%                   Accelerator
                                                    Decelerator
                 95%          65%         7.00%     
THRESHOLD        90%          50%         3.00%     
            less than 90%      0%                    

Net Inventory Turns Segment
This segment will measure Net Inventory Turns achieved to Plan.  The
minimum threshold percent against plan is 90%.  When the minimum threshold
is reached, a bonus is paid equal to 50% of the Net Inventory Turns bonus
target.  When 100% of the target is reached, a bonus equal to 100% of the
Net Inventory Turns portion of the target bonus is payable.  At 123% of the
Net Inventory Turns target, the bonus equals 175% of the Net Inventory
Turns portion of the target bonus.  Actual payouts may, therefore, range
from 0% to a maximum of 175% of the Net Inventory Turns portion of the
target bonus.

PAYOUT TABLE:  NET INVENTORY TURNS

                % to        % Bonus    % per each   
                Plan        Payout        Point
                  
MAXIMUM         123%         175%         3.26%     

                115%         150%         3.26%     
                105%         116%         3.26%
PLAN            100%         100%                   Accelerator
                                                    Decelerator
                 95%          75%         5.00%     
THRESHOLD        90%          50%         5.00%     
           less than 90%       0%                    

                                        
                                       52
<PAGE>

Division Performance Measurements
Division Performance Measurements will be Units, Operating Margin, Net
Inventory Turns and Days Sales Outstanding.  If the threshold is met, it
will be multiplied by a percentage from 50% through 175% depending on
Division Performance.  If the threshold is not met, there will be no payout
for that performance segment. .

The bonus payouts at various achievements against plan for the Units,
Operating Margin, Net Inventory Turns and Days Sales Outstanding segments
are shown in the tables below.   Actual payouts between those shown will be
calculated on any actual incremental % achievement against plan.Plan
numbers and actual performance will be monitored by the World Wide Planning
Group

If for any reason, there is a significant change in a Division's plan
during the plan payment period, upon joint recommendation of Human
Resources and World Wide Planning and with the approval of the Chief
Executive Officer, plan targets may be changed or another alternative may
be implemented.

If for any reason, including reorganization, a Division Business
Measurement is no longer applicable for the entire payment period, the
Division Business Measurement will be replaced by the higher Division,
Geography or Corporate Business Measurement.

Units Segment
This segment will measure quantity of Units  achieved to Plan.  The minimum
threshold percent against plan is 98.8%.  When the minimum threshold is
reached, a bonus is paid equal to 50% of the Units bonus target.  When 100%
of the target is reached, a bonus equal to 100% of the Units portion of the
target bonus is payable.  At 105.5% of the Units target, the bonus payable
equals 175% of the Units portion of the target bonus.  Actual payouts may,
therefore, range from 0% to a maximum of 175% of the Units portion of the
target bonus.

PAYOUT TABLE:  UNITS

                % to        % Bonus    % per each   
                Plan        Payout        Point
                  
MAXIMUM        105.5%        175%        11.36%     

               103.3%        150%        15.15%     
PLAN            100%         100%                   Accelerator
                                                    Decelerator
THRESHOLD       98.8%         50%        41.67%     
          less than 98.8%      0%                    

Operating Margin Segment
This segment will measure Operating Margin achieved to Plan.  The minimum
threshold percent against plan is 90%.  When the minimum threshold is
reached, a bonus is paid equal to 50% of the Operating Margin bonus target.
When 100% of the target is reached, a bonus equal to 95% of the Operating
Margin portion of the target bonus is payable.  At 130% of the Operating
Margin target, the bonus equals 175% of the Operating Margin portion of the
target bonus.  Actual payouts may, therefore, range from 0% to a maximum of
175% of the Operating Margin portion of the target bonus.

                                       53
<PAGE>


PAYOUT TABLE:  OPERATING MARGIN

                % to        % Bonus    % per each   
                Plan        Payout        Point
                  
MAXIMUM         130%         175%         3.0%      

                120%         145%         3.0%      
                115%         130%         3.0%
                110%         115%         3.0%
                105%         100%         1.0%
PLAN            100%          95%                   Accelerator
                                                    Decelerator
                 95%          75%         4.0%      
THRESHOLD        90%          50%         5.0%      
            less than 90%      0%                    

     Net Inventory Turns Segment
This segment will measure Net Inventory Turns achieved to Plan.  The
minimum threshold percent against plan is 90%.  When the minimum threshold
is reached, a bonus is paid equal to 50% of the Net Inventory Turns bonus
target.  When 100% of the target is reached, a bonus equal to 100% of the
Net Inventory Turns portion of the target bonus is payable.  At 123% of the
Net Inventory Turns target, the bonus equals 175% of the Net Inventory
Turns portion of the target bonus.  Actual payouts may, therefore, range
from 0% to a maximum of 175% of the Net Inventory Turns portion of the
target bonus.

PAYOUT TABLE:  NET INVENTORY TURNS

                % to        % Bonus    % per each   
                Plan        Payout        Point
                  
MAXIMUM         123%         175%         3.26%     

                115%         150%         3.26%     
                105%         116%         3.26%
PLAN            100%         100%                   Accelerator
                                                    Decelerator
                 95%          75%         5.00%     
THRESHOLD        90%          50%         5.00%     
            less than 90%      0%                    

                                       54
<PAGE>

     Days Sales Outstanding Segment
This segment will measure Days Sales Outstanding achieved to Plan.  The
minimum threshold percent against plan is 90%.  When the minimum threshold
is reached, a bonus is paid equal to 50% of the Days Sales Outstanding
bonus target.  When 100% of the target is reached, a bonus equal to 100% of
the Days Sales Outstanding portion of the target bonus is payable.  At 115%
of the Days Sales Outstanding target, the bonus equals 175% of the Days
Sales Outstanding portion of the target bonus.  Actual payouts may,
therefore, range from 0% to a maximum of 175% of the Days Sales Outstanding
portion of the target bonus.

PAYOUT TABLE:  DAYS SALES OUTSTANDING

                % to        % Bonus    % per each   
                Plan        Payout        Point
                  
MAXIMUM         115%%        175%         5.0%      

                110%         150%         5.0%      
                105%         125%         5.0%
PLAN            100%         100%                   Accelerator
                                                    Decelerator
                 95%          75%         5.0%      
THRESHOLD        90%          50%         5.0%      
           less than 90%       0%                    

INDIVIDUAL PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT:
The Individual Performance measurement is based on performance against two
to four key strategic, predetermined objectives.  The Individual
Performance Measurement is determined by the supervising manager.
Each goal is weighted as to its importance.  The overall weighting must
equal 100%.  Individual performance is measured as follows:


Achievement                                        % of Individual
                                                 Target Award Paid

CONSISTENTLY EXCEEDED Individual Performance Goals     121% - 150%
CONSISTENTLY MET ALL Individual Performance Goals      100% - 120%
MET MOST Individual Performance Goals                  80%  -  99%
DID NOT MEET Individual Performance Goals            No Award Paid

                                       55
<PAGE>

The overall assessment of the individual performance segment is calculated
by multiplying the targeted dollar amount by the % achievement for each
category as shown in the example below:

     Individual Performance segment = $8,500
     Weighting is calculated as shown below for each of the performance areas
     Overall individual performance weighting of 103% = a payout of $8,755


                                                         Individual
                         Weighting        Target   x    % Achievement =Payout

Market Share Goals         40%            $3,400           85%         $2,890
Customer Satisfaction      30%            $2,550          130%         $3,315
Employee Alignment         30%            $2,550          100%         $2,550
Overall                   100%            $8,500          103%         $8,755

The percentage award achieved under the Individual Performance Measurement
is then applied to the portion of the Target Bonus, i.e. 40%, to determine
the actual Individual Performance portion of the award.

The target will be multiplied by a percentage up to a maximum of 150%
depending on the supervising manager's initial overall assessment of the
individual's performance against objectives.  Ratings of all participants
will then be reviewed at higher levels of management within the division to
ensure equity.  This information will then be reviewed by the Board of
Directors and depending on overall financial performance, individual
percentage payouts may then be adjusted.

If the Individual Performance portion of the bonus is determined to be
zero, no Financial portion of the bonus will be payable.  Exceptions to no
payment for Individual performance below 80%, and/or paying the Financial
portion of the bonus when the Individual Performance is below 80%, must be
approved by the Division President or Sr. Vice President and the Division
Human Resources Manager.  (Note: Also see the Corrective
Action/Disciplinary Situations section on page 11.)

Bonus Payout:
Senior/Executive Incentive Bonus Plan  payouts (less deductions and
withholdings) will be paid biannually.  The first payment will be based on
"1st Half" (Q1 and Q2) Financial Performance results and will be paid
during May/June after the close of Q2.  The second payment will be based on
"2nd Half" (Q3 and Q4) Financial Performance results as well as Individual
Performance results for the entire fiscal year (Q1 - Q4) and will be paid
during November/December following the end of the plan year.  Both awards
are paid out of the Senior/Executive Bonus Pool Fund.

There will be no Senior/Executive Incentive Bonus Plan  payout on Financial
or Individual performance if there is no Corporate operating profit or a
Corporate operating loss.  In this case, the CEO has the option  to
recommend appropriate individual awards to the Board of Directors.

                                       56
<PAGE>

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES:
The purpose of administrative procedures is to provide for consistency of
administration of the incentive plans.  The following guidelines apply only
when previously stated plan requirements have been met.

New Hires, Promotions, and Transfers
An employee who is hired, promoted or transferred into a position in which
he or she is eligible to become a participant may receive a prorated award
(see Eligibility Proration Criteria section) based on the months in the
position,

Employees promoted or transferred from one eligible position into another
eligible position will require:  a) a determination of whether a new target
award and new objectives should be set; and b) prorated awards based on the
number of months of service in each position during the plan year if the
new target is different.  Employees who transfer from one eligible position
into another eligible position may receive a prorated award (see Division
Proration Criteria section).  Employees transferred into a position not
eligible for participation will result in a prorated payment at the end of
the plan year based on the number of months worked in the eligible position
(see Eligibility Proration Criteria section)

The following example illustrates how an eligible employee who has been
promoted would have their bonus calculated:

                                           Pro-rated Target Amount
10/1/94 Salary                $175,000                 
Bonus Target %                     30%                 
Bonus Target $                 $52,500      52,500         $26,250
                                        @ 6 months =
4/01/95 New Salary                                     
after promotion               $183,750
New Bonus Target %                 43%                 
New Bonus Target $             $79,013     $79,013         $39,506
                                        @ 6 months =
                                                       
TOTAL ANNUAL BONUS TARGET:                                 $65,756

Eligibility Proration Criteria
If eligibility for participation occurs before the 15th of the month,
participants will receive credit for the full month.  If eligibility for
participation occurs on or after the 15th of the month, participants will
receive credit for 1/2 month.

Division Proration Criteria
If a plan participant transfers from one division to another, the
respective division measurement will be prorated by the number of months
the plan participant was in each division according to the above
Eligibility Proration Criteria.

Terminations
Plan participants who terminate their employment, and are not employed by
Apple on the last day of the biannual payment period, are not eligible to
receive any award.  If a plan participant terminates after the close of the
biannual payment period, but prior to the actual distribution of the bonus
payout, such participant will be eligible to receive a bonus plan award
according to the terms of "The Plan".

                                       57
<PAGE>


Rehires
Plan participants who terminate their employment during the Plan year, and
who are rehired and are employed by Apple on the last day of the biannual
payment period, are eligible to receive an award.  Such an award will be
prorated to reflect only the period of time the participant was employed by
Apple and according to the above Eligibility Proration Criteria.

Disability or Death
Awards will normally be prorated at the end of the plan year based on the
amount of time the employee was an active participant (see Eligibility
Proration Criteria section).  In the case of a participant's death, any
such award will be paid to the beneficiary as determined pursuant to the
participant's designation of beneficiary under the employee's Apple life
insurance plan.


Corrective Actions/Disciplinary Situations
If, during the applicable biannual bonus period or any time before the
biannual bonus has actually been paid to the employee, management has
determined that corrective action, discipline or demotion of an employee is
appropriate, management may, in its discretion and in consultation with
Human Resources, reduce or eliminate entirely the amount of bonus the
employee would otherwise be eligible to receive.  If, at the time a
biannual bonus would otherwise be payable, such corrective action,
discipline or demotion is being considered but has not yet been
implemented, the entire bonus, or any portion of it, may be withheld until
a decision on such action has been finalized and implemented.

Other Provisions
Participation in this Plan is not an agreement (express or implied) between
the Plan participant and Apple that the participant will be employed by
Apple for any specific period of time, nor is there any agreement for
continuing or long-term employment.  The Plan participant and Apple each
have the right to terminate the employment relationship at any time and for
any reason.  This at-will employment relationship can only be modified by
an agreement signed by the participant and Apple's Senior Vice President of
Human Resources.

Any determination of performance, payment or other matters under this plan
by management and/or the Board of Directors is binding on all interested
persons.

Apple Computer Inc.'s obligation to pay out a Senior/Executive Incentive
Bonus Plan award shall be unfunded and all payment of benefits shall be
made from the general assets of Apple Computer, Inc.  Title to and
beneficial ownership of any assets of the 1995 Accrued Senior/Executive
Incentive Bonus Plan accounts or any other assets which Apple Computer,
Inc. may designate to pay bonuses hereunder shall before payment remain in
Apple Computer, Inc.

This summary highlights the principle features of the bonus plan, but it
does not describe every situation that can occur.

Apple Computer, Inc. retains the right to interpret, revise, modify or
delete the plan at its sole discretion at any time
                                                                           
                                       58
<PAGE>
                                                                           
                                                                           
                                                              Attachment A.
                                                                           
                                                                           
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                Glossary of Terms



Days Sales Outstanding       Measure for average
                             length of time Apple must wait after
                             making a sale before receiving payment

Net Inventory Turns          Number of times average inventory would 
                             be converted into Cost Of Goods Sold

Operating Margin             Gross Margin less Operating Expenses

ROCE                         Return On Capital Employed - After tax 
                             operating profit divided by capital employed
                             (total assets excluding cash, less current
                             liabilities plus capitalized operating leases)

Units                        A precisely defined quantity in terms of which
                             measurement of quantities of the same kind
                             (ex. CPU's, Servers, Newtons, Scanners,
                             Powerbooks, Printers, etc.) can be expressed.


                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                       59
<PAGE>


</TEXT>

</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
